                          PROF. E. H. CRANE’S
                         Manual of Instructions
                            TO UNDERTAKERS,
                                  WITH
         FULL AND COMPLETE INSTRUCTIONS IN THE BEST METHODS FOR
                          Preserving the Dead,
                    INCLUDING MINUTE DIRECTIONS FOR
                          Arterial Injection,
    WITH PLATES ILLUSTRATING THE LOCATION OF THE PRINCIPAL ARTERIES.


                            REVISED EDITION.




                            Copyright, 1888,
                           BY CRANE & ALLEN,
                            Kalamazoo, Mich.


                  Printed by Kalamazoo Publishing Co.




                            REVISED EDITION.


It is to be understood that this MANUAL OF INSTRUCTION is _not for
sale_, but is only for your information and instruction while using the
Excelsior Preservative, and that it will not be furnished to any other
than our customers _at any price_.

Therefore we trust that you will keep this MANUAL under lock and key, or
where no person other than yourself or your regular assistants can have
access to it, as it contains all of the information and instructions
that you could heretofore have gained by personal attendance on mine or
any course of lectures on Embalming, at much expense of time and money,
_with the single exception_ of a practical demonstration of the
operation of taking up and injecting the Arteries.

This is, however, so fully and minutely described and explained in the
MANUAL, with the aid of accurate drawings of the principal arteries—_see
Chapters IX, X and XI_—that the operation can be easily learned without
any other instruction.

                                                            E. H. CRANE.




                           TABLE OF CONTENTS.


 Chap.    I. —Ancient Embalming.

   „     II. —Care of Ordinary Cases.

   „    III. —Cases requiring Cavity Injection.

   „     IV. —Cases requiring a full Treatment without Arterial
               Injection.

   „      V. —Treatment in Cases indicating an Absence of immediate
               Results and final Success.

   „     VI. —The Preservative as a Disinfectant and Preventative of
               Contagious Diseases.

   „    VII. —The Preservative put up in Bottles for the use of
               Unprofessional Persons.

   „   VIII. —Embalming by Arterial Injection.

   „     IX. —Injection of the Carotid Artery. (Illustration of location
               of Carotid Artery.)

   „      X. —Injection of the Brachial Artery. (Illustration of
               location of Brachial Artery.)

   „     XI. —Injection of the Femoral Artery. (Illustration of location
               of Femoral Artery.)

   „    XII. —Precautions to observe for the Safety of the Operator in
               Embalming.

   „    XIII —Chemical Affinities.

   „    XIV. —Advantages to the Undertaker of Scientific Embalming.

   „     XV. —Absorption by the Capillaries.

   „    XVI. —Embalming Instruments.

   „   XVII. —Caution in Storing and Keeping the Preservative.

 Appendix, with commendatory letters,                           Page  48

 Note—Care of the Manual,                                        „   141

 Letter to our Customers,                                        „   142




                          PROF. E. H. CRANE’S

                         Manual of Instructions

                            TO UNDERTAKERS.




                               CHAPTER I.
                           Ancient Embalming.


It is my object in these instructions to lay before the undertakers of
this country a minute and detailed description of the _only reliable_
process, and _best method known_, for the preservation and embalming of
the dead, and at the same time to submit to them the important details
to be followed out so condensed and free from unnecessary and
superfluous language that the methods used shall be plain to any one,
believing that any matter not strictly pertaining to the subject is out
of place in a Manual of Instruction.

Long study and experiment in this interesting science has brought to
light many valuable and practical results, and it is from actual tests
and experiments extending over nearly a quarter of a century that I have
devoted to this subject that has enabled me to say that with the aid of
my Excelsior Preservative the Undertaker may rely with entire and
perfect confidence, upon meeting with complete success in each and every
case to which he may be called, and I can assure him that after using
the Excelsior Preservative, he will have no desire to return to the use
of ice, or any other preparation he may have used in the past.

The Egyptians embalmed their dead by a tedious process, which occupied
from sixty to ninety days—constant attention and care being required.
They always removed the brain, stomach and intestines, which last were
sometimes deprived of their excrement and replaced in the body, and when
they were called to embalm very fleshy subjects all of the adipose or
fatty substances that could be removed were taken out of the bodies;
this done, they were next bathed, or even immersed, in a solution of
Arsenic, Asphaltum, Oil of Cedar, Gum Myrrh, and any or all of the
aromatic spices that they could possess themselves of without respect to
kind or quantity. After which the body was subjected to slow and steady
heat for from sixty to ninety days; the application of the solution
being repeated several times (smoke was also used in some cases); when
the moisture was finally expelled from the body they were wrapped or
rather wound with narrow strips of linen cloth from head to foot. These
cloths were also saturated with Asphaltum, Arsenic and Gum Myrrh, which
soon became dried and cemented together in a manner to prevent moisture
from permeating the body as long as the wrapping remained intact.

Thus it will be observed that the Egyptian method is not a lost art, as
has been supposed, neither would any person living under the present age
of improvement allow it to be practiced on their dead.

It has been often remarked by those not informed in such matters, that
the Egyptian method could not be fully analyzed or a new and better
method discovered to take its place; but, fortunately, this is a great
mistake.

The Peruvians equalled the Egyptian method without removing anything
from the body, and all they used was smoke and heat. When the moisture
was fully evaporated from the body it was placed in a dry, rocky tomb.
Many of these _mummies_ have been discovered in a fine state of
preservation, and few, if any, are prepared to say but that these
ancient dead have been lying in their rock-hewn tombs as long as the
so-called Egyptian mummies have in the catacombs of Egypt.

I have given the above, as you will be asked many times in regard to the
Egyptian method of embalming, and it will be a very great advantage to
you in being able to give the information called for.

There are a number of so-called preserving or embalming preparations,
sold as such (some having a little merit as a temporary preservative),
but _none of them_ possessing all the requirements of a perfect
preservative, deodorizer and embalming compound.

_Perfection_, however, has been attained in the Excelsior Preservative,
it being a perfect deodorizer, and for preserving and embalming the dead
_it surpasses anything known_ either in _ancient_ or _modern_ times.

Having explained the ancient method of preserving the dead, I will now
take up the science as perfected, with the aid of the Excelsior
Preservative and the practical instructions, which I herewith lay before
you.

With this manual in your possession, you will be enabled to attain that
perfection in the art of preserving and embalming the dead which the
educated and refined taste of the people of this day require of your
profession.

[Illustration: [Fleuron]]




                              CHAPTER II.
               Directions for the Care of Ordinary Cases.


To handle and preserve an ordinary case in warm weather, when the body
is only to be kept one or two days, the undertaker will find my process
very much easier than any of the old methods (in fact not half the
work). In a case of this kind (as the ice-box or icing is done away with
or omitted), all the undertaker has to do is to lay the body out, with
the head from ten to twelve inches higher than the feet (_the higher the
head the better_), and inject with the Syringe, using the large bent
tube, say one-half of a pint of the Preservative into the nose or mouth,
which will immediately run down the throat into the lungs and stomach,
and prevent any fermentation or decay of any substance that may be in
them. The body should be raised up in the sitting posture if there is
any difficulty in injecting down the throat.

Then wet a large cloth (_a large towel is the best_,) with the
Preservative and lay it over the chest and abdomen. This should be kept
wet with the Preservative from four to eight hours, the longer the
better; also wet cloths with the Preservative and lay over the face and
hands. Be particular to press the cloth down well around the eyes, ears
and neck. This effectually prevents any discoloration, or if it has
already turned dark, the complexion will be restored as white as in
life.

These cloths should also be kept wet with the Preservative from four to
six hours, and even longer in some cases; this is all very quickly done,
and easy to do by any one after they once understand it.

Now leave the body in this position on the inclined board for about 18
to 24 hours, when it can be dressed and placed in the casket. The cloths
can now be removed from the face during the day, but should be replaced
during the night and be kept wet with the Preservative, as a certain
preventative against discoloration.

The undertaker can leave orders with the friends to wet these cloths and
lay them over the face at night, thus saving himself the trouble of
going back to look after it.

Remember, it is always best to let the body lie in the inclined position
about 24 hours before placing it in the casket, and if kept in the
casket over night the foot end of the casket should be lowered during
the night-time in order that the inclined position of the body may be
retained.




                              CHAPTER III.
            Directions to Observe in a More Obstinate Case.


When the body is to be kept longer, it is best to first empty the
stomach of whatever mucous or other substance can be got out of it. This
is done easiest by turning the body onto its side, with the head
drooping a little over the side of the bed or couch or whatever the body
may be lying upon, and by pressing with your hand upon the stomach a
portion of its contents will run out.

A washbowl or chamber, placed in a chair, is handiest for this purpose.
(And here I would say, it is always best to inject into the stomach
about one-quarter of a pint of the Preservative before attempting to
empty it, as this will so effectually deodorize the contents of the
stomach that no offensive odor or smell will arise when you empty it
into the vessel, thus keeping the room free from stench.)

Immediately after emptying the stomach, place the body in an inclined
position, with the head ten or twelve inches higher than the feet, as
before stated (preferably on the cooling board if you have one, and the
steeper the incline the better), and again inject with the syringe about
one pint of the Preservative into the stomach.

This, as before stated, will effectually prevent any further
fermentation or decay of any substance remaining in the stomach.

And as a further safeguard against any substance running out of the
mouth, and consequent staining of the pillow or lining of the casket, it
is well to stop up the throat with a little cotton. For this purpose you
should have an instrument (it may be of wood) made in the shape of a
spoon handle and about eight inches long; with this you can easily push
a ball of cotton saturated with the Preservative well down the throat.
This is a precaution that should _never_ be omitted when the body is to
be kept any great length of time, or when it has to be transported on
the cars or other conveyance to any distance.

It is well to stop up the nose in the same way, but it must be done very
neatly, so as not to show or change the appearance of it. Having thus
attended to the stomach, you will next bathe the face, neck and whole
body (if at all convenient), with the Preservative, using for this
purpose a large lather brush, which is better than a sponge or cloth, as
you can do the work much quicker and easier with the brush.

The rectum at this time should be injected with the Preservative and
stopped with a ball of cotton saturated with the same. _This should be
well done_, to guard against purging, and should never be omitted where
there is any apparent danger of purging, or where the body is to be
moved to any considerable distance before burial. Also puncture the
abdomen with the Gas-trocar, and inject through the Gas-trocar into the
cavity of the body around the bowels about one pint of the Preservative.

A large cloth or towel should also be wet with the Preservative and laid
over the chest and abdomen, covering it well over; and in order that it
will hold the moisture for several hours, it is best that the cloth
should be several thicknesses over the abdomen, and should be kept wet
with the Preservative by pouring from the bottle along the center of the
cloth from time to time as long as the body is to be kept, or during the
first two days when the burial is to take place on the third day, and if
the burial is to take place on the fourth, fifth or sixth day, this
cloth should be kept wet the first _three_ days, and when the body is to
be kept _ten or fifteen days_, this cloth should be kept wet
proportionately longer.

This part of the work should be remembered and well attended to, as it
is a well-known fact that decomposition and putrescence first makes its
appearance in the bowels and stomach.

It is here the Preservative does its most thorough work, as, by keeping
the cloths wet over the abdomen and stomach, the Preservative, to a very
great extent, _permeates the whole body_, and is a valuable safeguard
against bloating; and if bloating has not already commenced, it will
never make its appearance after you commence to use the Preservative as
above directed, and in very many cases it has been known to arrest and
reduce bloating by its use as directed. As much depends upon absorption,
the more of the Preservative there is applied externally, as above
directed, the better results there will be obtained.

The face, neck, ears and hands should be well bathed with the
Preservative, using the brush for this purpose, and if the ears have
turned black you can remove the color in five minutes by keeping them
wet with the Preservative, and pressing or squeezing them with your
hand, and it is always well to do this when they have turned very dark.

However, the cloths that you have before been instructed to wet with the
Preservative and lay over the face, neck and hands, will effectually
remove all discoloration or prevent its appearance.

These cloths should be well pressed down around the eyes, nose, neck and
ears, so as to be sure that the cloths touch every spot. The cloths can
be kept moist by applying a little of the Preservative from time to
time, without removing the cloths to wet them. These cloths should be
kept on from ten to twelve hours, after which they can be removed
through the day and replaced through the night.

If this process is kept up there will be a natural and life-like
appearance preserved, without the least discoloration, and the face will
look better at the end of the third or fourth day, or even a week, than
it did at death. In the FREE USE of this Preservative, the longer you
keep a body the better it will look.

The use of the Preservative in this way will not only preserve the body,
but will effectually purify and deodorize the room, driving away all
offensive smell, however bad it might have been at first, and perfectly
disinfecting the house of all possibility of contagion, thus insuring
safety to yourself and preventing further spread of the disease in the
family.

This entire process will take less than thirty minutes of your time. The
body should be kept in the inclined position from 20 to 30 hours, with
the head at least twelve inches higher than the feet, (the easiest way
to obtain this position is to drop the foot end of the board on the
floor), at the end of which time it can be dressed and placed in the
casket, but the dress should be left loose, so that the cloths over the
chest and abdomen can be wet from time to time with the Preservative, as
before directed, or you can insert the Gas-trocar through the clothing
and inject the Preservative in on to the body and thus keep the cloths
wet, and if kept in the casket over night, lower the foot end of it, as
before directed.

It is also well to leave directions with the friends to bathe the face
and neck once in two or three hours with the Preservative, using the
brush for that purpose, and the cloths should be replaced on the face
and hands during the night, as before stated.

A body treated in the foregoing manner can be kept for a _week or ten
days_ in any kind of weather (_the very warmest_) with perfect safety,
and with comparatively little trouble to yourself you will have
conferred a very great favor on the friends of the deceased, by thus
giving them an opportunity of looking upon the remains from day to day,
as often and as long as they wish, and also giving them all the time
they may want to arrange and re-arrange the dress, hair and flowers
preparatory to the funeral. It will readily be seen that this would be
_very much more satisfactory_ to any one, and much more in keeping with
the refined taste of the present day, than the practice of hiding the
body away to be _frozen_ in the UNSIGHTLY ICE BOX, which is always a
HORROR to the friends of the deceased.




                              CHAPTER IV.
  Directions to Observe in a still More Obstinate and Difficult Case.


Where the body is badly bloated, when you are first called, it is best,
immediately after attending to the stomach (as before instructed) to let
off the gas from the cavities of the body. This is best done with the
Gas-trocar, if you have one, as with this instrument, and having a small
rubber pipe attached to it, you can puncture the abdomen or cavity of
the body with the point of the Gas-trocar, and by extending the rubber
pipe out of the window, the gas (which has a very offensive odor), will
pass out of the window through the pipe, thus saving any disagreeable
smell, for the time being, in the room. Many however, puncture the
abdomen in several places and let the gas off in the room, as the
Preservative will soon deodorize and purify the room.

It is sometimes necessary to puncture the body in two or three places,
in order to get rid of all the gasses, but seldom more than once, as in
nine cases out of ten the gas will all escape in less than two minutes
from one opening.

Immediately after the gas has escaped, insert the point of the Syringe
and inject one or two pints of the Excelsior Preservative into the
cavity of the abdomen, which will pass all around the bowels and arrest
any further decomposition or putrescence, and entirely prevent any
further accumulation of gas or possibility of bloating. You can inject
the Preservative through the Gas-trocar.

If you have found it necessary to make more than one incision with the
Gas-trocar or knife, it is well to inject some of the Preservative into
every opening made, even to the extent of three pints or more.

Whenever it is desirable for any reason to avoid leaving any external
mark of the puncture, it should be made at the navel, first drawing the
loose fold of skin at one side and puncturing through the navel; then,
when the trocar is withdrawn the loose skin around the navel returns to
its natural position. The trocar can be pointed downwards and to each
side, injecting some of the Preservative in each place, thus
accomplishing the thorough injection of the abdominal cavity from only
one point of insertion.

In case it may be deemed necessary to inject the thorax (or cavity of
the chest) raise or extend one of the arms and puncture and inject
through the axilla or armpit.

The stomach may be reached from the point of insertion at the navel by
pointing the Gas-trocar upwards at an acute angle, inclining it a little
to the left in a line with the top of the left shoulder. The foregoing
methods of injection have the advantage of leaving no visible trace of
the operation.

It is also _important_ (and _not to be forgotten_) to puncture the
bladder with the Gas-trocar and draw off the urine. This is easily done
by placing a washbowl or chamber in a chair and, after puncturing the
bladder, turn the body on its side, and the urine will escape through
the instrument at once, but if in some cases it might not escape through
the Gas-trocar readily in this position it certainly _will_ by raising
the body to a sitting posture.

The point for the insertion of the Trocar to reach the bladder is just
at the top of the _os pubes_ or pubic bone (the bone uniting the hips in
front at the bottom of the abdominal cavity), making the puncture in a
line with the navel as near the top of the bone as you can and inclining
the point of the Trocar a little downwards behind the bone.

Remember, always after the urine has been taken away, to inject _at
least_ half a pint of the Preservative into the bladder. It is important
that this part of the work should be well done, for unless this
precaution is taken, the urine is certain to escape more or less in the
natural way on the second or third day.

And whenever the bladder is _not_ thus attended to, you must _never_
omit the simple precaution of putting on a good heavy diaper; say,
double up a large sheet and use plenty of cotton well saturated with the
Preservative, and do up the parts as snugly as a mother would her child,
remembering to saturate these cloths again the second, third and fourth
day, by pouring Preservative from the bottle on the diapers, thus
deodorizing any escape that may have taken place, in order that there
may be no disagreeable smell arising from this source on the day of the
funeral.

This part of the practice is not new to those well up in the profession,
but I have thought best to call your attention to these facts in order
that no important point should be overlooked by any one.

This done, in addition to the treatment according to the foregoing
instructions, I term partial embalming, and the entire time consumed in
thus taking care of a body will not exceed one hour. And if the
Preservative _is used freely_ and my instructions are carried out in
this process of treating a case, there will _never be a failure_, and
the body in _every instance_ will be as effectually preserved for ten,
twenty or thirty days, as it would under a treatment of full embalming
for all time.

[Illustration: [Fleuron]]




                               CHAPTER V.
             Cases Indicating Absence of Immediate Results.


In some cases the appearances of the body under treatment may indicate a
want of immediate results from the application of the Preservative as
the same case would from any kind of treatment. Which may be from the
fact that from the nature of the disease or from circumstances connected
with the death of the subject, decomposition sets in very rapidly, in
some cases the blood and fluids of the body being in a state of rapid
progress towards disintegration even before death, and although the
Preservative permeates the tissues of the body very readily, the amount
of _actual contact of it_ is so limited in proportion to the whole mass
of animal matter to be preserved, that some time must be allowed for
_sufficient saturation_.

When such indications appear, do not be discouraged or allow the fears
of the friends of the deceased of your ultimate failure deter you, but
continue to persist in your work as you have been directed in these
pages, neglecting or omitting no part of the process, allowing time
enough for _thorough saturation_ of the body with the Preservative, and
the case will invariably come out all right, provided that the rules
have all been carefully followed, and in fact a body under such careful
and persistent treatment will present a better appearance after the
third or fourth day than before.

I will here call your attention to the fact, if there are any
disagreeable odors in the room when you are first called to attend the
dead, a little of the Preservative sprayed about the room will
effectually deodorize and disinfect it, rendering it at once pure and
wholesome, remembering that the Excelsior Preservative will not stain or
injure any clothing or fabric with which it may come in contact.

[Illustration: [Fleuron]]




                              CHAPTER VI.
            Prevention of Contagious or Infectious Diseases.


Many of our customers sell large quantities of the Preservative to
disinfect sick-rooms. If sprayed around the rooms it will purify and
deodorize them in five minutes, thereby arresting contagion. The best
way to deodorize a room or the house, is to suspend a good-sized sponge
saturated with the Preservative, in each room, with a plate underneath
to catch the drip, and when dry saturate again from the plate.

A little of the Preservative should be poured into the chamber utensils,
and it should also be sprinkled or sprayed on articles coming into
contact with the infectious matter, also on the clothing of those
attending the sick before leaving the sick-room, in order to avoid
carrying the infection outside.

Whenever the Preservative is used freely in sick-rooms or throughout the
house, where there is a case of scarlet fever or diphtheria, there will
be no further spread of those diseases in the family. In this respect
the Preservative is invaluable, and the Undertaker who wishes to push
its sale on the merits of its value as a disinfectant for sick-rooms,
will find it called for in time by nearly every family in his community.

The Preservative has been successfully used in epidemics of scarlet
fever in many instances in the past, preventing its further spread
whenever it has been freely and faithfully applied; and although I have
no personal knowledge of its application as a disinfectant and
preventative in yellow fever epidemics, I have no doubt whatever of its
great usefulness in confining that dread disease in narrow limits,
knowing from actual experience its effectiveness in neutralizing and
destroying septic matter and all germs of contagion of every nature and
kind.

[Illustration: [Fleuron]]




                              CHAPTER VII.
          Sale of the Preservative to Unprofessional Persons.


You will no doubt have customers who will only buy the casket and who
will not require your attendance in laying out and caring for their
dead, and we would suggest a source of profit and advantage to you in
such cases in recommending the purchase of a bottle or two of the
Preservative with directions for using on the face and exposed portions
of the body, and such other uses as may be appropriate in each case. We
can furnish the Preservative put up in bottles, labeled with directions
for its use by unprofessional persons as a face application and as a
disinfectant and deodorizer.

The greatly improved appearance of a body that has been even so
partially treated with the Preservative, will not only make your
customer’s investment in it entirely satisfactory to them, but it will
be also an advertisement for and an aid to your business. It will be, in
a professional point of view, entirely proper in such cases, and in
cases of infectious diseases, to make the Preservative an article of
merchandise, as it will aid in introducing and familiarizing the idea of
embalming in your community; and will not at all interfere with, but
will rather create a demand for your services as an Embalmer, for the
use of the Preservative in such a limited way would only tend to make
popular its more extended use, but as we furnish it _only to the
Undertaking Fraternity_, it is for them and not for us to put it upon
the market in that way or not, as they may choose.




                             CHAPTER VIII.
                    Embalming by Arterial Injection.


If circumstances render it desirable that the body shall be fully
embalmed and preserved for an indefinite length of time, the Arterial
Circulation should be filled with the Excelsior Preservative.

It is essential that you should have a thorough knowledge of all of the
details of the methods used for the preservation of the dead by partial
embalming or cavity injection as it is sometimes called, and to have
some experience in the care of the dead by the processes already
described, or at least to fully understand them, as it is necessary for
the very best results from Arterial injection that the _entire process_
of preserving and partial embalming of a body should be carefully and
faithfully performed, according to previous instructions, as it is
equally as necessary as the injecting of the Arterial Circulation, and
_no part or portion_ of the previous instructions for preserving should
ever be omitted in a case of full embalming.

You can very easily learn from any physician where to find the arteries,
how to distinguish them from the veins and nerves, and how to take them
up and inject them, and it will be only necessary for you to have one
ocular demonstration by your family physician how the operation is
performed which with the minute directions I will now give you, will be
sufficient, in fact, quite a large number of our customers who are now
proficient in the art, have become so without any teaching other than
that they have gained by reading and studying over carefully my
directions, and practicing, whenever there were opportunities, and if
you will procure the proper instruments and practice by yourself alone
(and you will find many opportunities to practice upon subjects not
requiring full embalming) you can acquire the necessary skill without
personal instructions from any one.

Either of the three great arteries, viz: The Carotid, Femoral or
Brachial may be selected for the operation, as it makes no difference in
its effectiveness, all of the arteries of the body inosculating or
intercommunicating with each other as well as being connected at the
heart as a central point.

The arteries after death are flattened or collapsed, which is due to the
fact that the blood is congealed in the veins, leaving the arteries
empty and pale. Every artery has its corresponding vein by its side from
which it is easily distinguished, as the veins are of a bluish color,
while the arteries are of a creamish white. There is usually a nerve in
close proximity to the artery, and although nearly of the same color, it
may be distinguished by its being rounder and not being hollow like the
artery. Taken between the thumb and finger the artery has the feeling of
a hollow tube, while the nerve feels more solid to the touch being
filled with a fibrous substance, something of the consistency of marrow.

The Carotid or great Artery of the neck (see illustration) being the
largest one of the whole body, is used for the injection by some
Embalmers, but in many cases it is necessary to avoid having the marks
of the incision show, as would be the case with children dressed low in
the neck. The Femoral, or main artery of the thigh (see illustration) is
also objectionable from the necessary exposure while performing the
operation, and as the Arterial Circulation can be filled equally as well
from the Brachial or large artery of the arm, I would advise its
selection, and as a rule, the confining of your practice to that
location, as it is best to be expert in performing the operation by the
one method rather than to be awkward from lack of sufficient practice
from trying too many ways unless your opportunities for practicing are
greater than is ordinarily the case.

[Illustration: [Fleuron]]




                              CHAPTER IX.
       Directions for Locating and Injecting the Carotid Artery.


The Carotid Artery lies nearer the surface, midway between the angle of
the lower jaw and the top of the collar bone being deeper under the
surface at the bottom of the neck. It is, however, desirable to make the
incision as low in the neck as possible in order to avoid leaving the
marks of it visible. Begin the incision on either side of the neck at a
point half way between the thyroid cartilage (or Adam’s apple) and the
top of the collar bone cutting downward. By reference to the plate
illustrating the location and course of this artery you will note the
place marked for the incision. The course of the Carotid Artery is in a
line drawn from the angle or bend of the collar bone where it joins the
Sternum or breast bone, upwards towards the ear, and it is at the side
of and almost touching the windpipe at the top of the collar bone, but
recedes backwards from the windpipe and comes nearer to the surface as
it passes upwards. It is contained in a sheath which incloses also the
internal jugular vein which lies close to and on the outer side of the
artery.

[Illustration: See dotted line for place for making the incision.]

Having taken up the artery, make a slit or cut in it lengthwise about
three eights of an inch in length and insert the point of the syringe
towards the body (_never towards the head when you are injecting into
the Carotid Artery_), securing the artery to the syringe point with
strong thread; also tie the artery above the syringe point, that nothing
may run out from that end of the slit. Now proceed to inject the
Preservative and continue to slowly force it into the artery as long as
you can do so with moderate pressure of the syringe bulb, but
discontinue when the veins in the forehead begin to show a slight
distention. Then let it remain about two hours by which time the
Capillary veins will have absorbed a portion of the Preservative already
injected, when you will find it easy to inject about one-third as much
more into the artery.

For most cases one injection is sufficient, but to keep a body for
months it is well to repeat the injection the second day or the third
day, the Preservative being largely absorbed by that time. After the
injection is completed tie the artery below the point of the syringe
securely, remove the syringe point, and sew up the cut.

[Illustration: [Fleuron]]




                               CHAPTER X.
       Directions for Locating and Injecting the Brachial Artery.


The course of the Brachial Artery is in a line drawn from the outer side
of the armpit to the center of the bend of the elbow, and along the
inner edge of the Biceps or largest muscle of the upper part of the arm
(see illustration). This artery will be found just at the inner edge of
the Biceps, at a point midway between the elbow and shoulder—sometimes a
little under the edge of the muscle in very muscular subjects. Hold the
arm out from the side of the body, twisting it a little outwards, and
make the incision at the edge of the muscle. By reference to the plate
illustrating the location of this artery, you will see the point marked
for the incision. Having taken up the artery, make the slit and secure
the syringe in it, the point directed towards the shoulder, and proceed
according to the general directions already given for the Carotid Artery
injection.

[Illustration: [Fleuron]]

[Illustration: Point for the incision.]

[Illustration: Point for the incision.]




                              CHAPTER XI.
       Directions for Locating and Injecting the Femoral Artery.


The course of the Femoral Artery is in a line drawn from the inner side
of the knee upwards to a point midway between the outside of the
hip-bone and inside of the thigh (see illustration). It is nearest the
surface and is taken up and injected the most readily at a point about
two inches below the lower edge or fold of the groin. By reference to
the plate illustrating the course of this artery, the place for
injection will be found marked. Having taken the artery up and made the
slit, secure the syringe with the point directed upwards, _i. e._,
towards the body, and proceed with the injection in the same manner as
with the other arteries. The Femoral Artery is seldom used, however, the
Brachial, and next to that the Carotid Artery, being usually preferred.

All bodies should be laid out upon an inclined plane (45 degrees is not
too much), particularly during the process of embalming, as by thus
inclining the body, the slight bloating of the face, caused by the
filling of the arterial circulation with the Preservative, will soon
pass off and a life-like expression remain.




                              CHAPTER XII.
  Precautions to observe for the Safety of the Operator in Embalming.


Should you cut or prick your hand or fingers in any way while handling
the dead, be sure and apply the Preservative AT ONCE to the wound, as it
will insure safety from the inoculation of the poison virus by which
many undertakers have lost their lives. I would also say to the
undertaker, in every instance where he is called upon to lay out the
dead, to first bathe his hands with the Preservative; this insures
perfect safety and should never be omitted, for you can not tell at just
what point you will meet with this deadly virus; and as I have before
stated, the Preservative in this respect is positively indispensable to
the undertaker.

I have already spoken in the highest praise of the Excelsior
Preservative, but the half has not been told. The undertaker who places
any estimate on the value of his own life, can not afford to be without
this _all important antidote_ against the dangerous inoculation of the
poison or deadly virus which he is liable to encounter at any moment in
handling the dead.

It is a very dangerous thing in any contingency to handle the dead,
notwithstanding it has been done thousands of times without injury to
the undertaker, yet this is due to great precaution on his part, or from
the fact of his hands being in perfect condition, having no scratch,
cracks, hang-nails, or abrasion of the skin through which the poison
could be inoculated into his system, whereas, others with a simple
scratch or hang-nail that they were not aware of until too late, have
thus been poisoned and lost their lives.

Cases of purging or sloughing of the skin are of the worst type, these
juices being fearfully poisonous, and the longer the body lays without
treatment the worse it grows, hence the more dangerous to handle;
therefore I say, it matters not what the undertaker charges for his
services, he is never half paid for the risk he runs of losing his own
life while fulfilling the duties of his profession in handling and
taking care of the dead.

There is no public servant that takes upon himself one-half the personal
risk, or whose services should be better appreciated by the community
than those of the professional undertaker, and when the customer
complains of prices, or where the undertaker’s charges are brought in
question, these facts should be fully explained.

A fatal case happened under my own personal observation in California
where the undertaker laid out a Chinaman that was purging at the mouth.
Some of the poisonous fluid got into a hang-nail, and in three days he
died, although a council of physicians was called, but nothing devised
or prescribed could help him, simply for the want of a perfect antidote
like the Excelsior Preservative, which, if applied, as directed in this
manual, is a certain preventative against the deadly ravages of this
virus. And I will once more say to the undertaker, you must be on your
guard at _all times_, and as self-preservation is paramount to all other
considerations in matters of this kind, be sure to bathe your hands in
the Preservative before commencing to handle or lay out the dead, and
also bathing them with it thoroughly _immediately afterwards_.




                             CHAPTER XIII.
                          Chemical Affinities.


I will here give a few of the reasons why the Excelsior Preservative
will do all that I represent.

To those who are acquainted with chemical laws, hardly any discovery
seems too strange to be true. Chemical laws and their affinities are
truly wonderful, and if we are to produce a certain result on the dead
human system, we must make use of chemicals that have affinities for the
parts to be acted upon, and no affinity whatever for those parts that we
desire to leave intact or undisturbed.

Careful study and experience have taught me that albumen and gluten are
the principal if not the only putrescible substances with which we have
to deal in the preservation of the dead.

Putrescent gases and odors which originate from the decomposition of
those substances, partake largely of their nature, and even carry with
them minute atoms of the corrupted mass into the air we breathe, and it
matters not whether this putrid and offensive matter exist in the air or
flesh, where the Excelsior Preservative comes in contact with it the air
is at once cleansed and rendered wholesome, or the flesh preserved. My
Preservative is made from chemicals that act directly upon the albumen
and gluten, uniting with them to form a new compound, and the compound
so formed becomes a new substance, and this has an affinity for the
hitherto unaffected constituency of the flesh, which all combine to form
a new, pure, and imputrescible whole; by this means changing the
corruptible mass into a _perfectly preserved body for all time_. The
Excelsior Preservative being infinitely superior and paramount to all
other preparations known to man in either ancient or modern times for
the preservation of the human body in its natural and life-like
appearance.

[Illustration: [Fleuron]]




                              CHAPTER XIV.
         Advantages to the Undertaker of Scientific Embalming.


With the aid of this Manual, the enterprising Undertaker will soon find
himself master of the situation, and no case, however complicated or
obstinate, will be able to baffle his skill, and as there is not a town
or city in the land in which there is not an occasional death of some
person whose remains are removed to a distant place for interment, and
as a great many of Undertakers are not skilled in the art of partial or
full embalming, many such cases are of necessity either sent in a putrid
state or shipped in an ice-box, to the _very great annoyance and
inconvenience_ of the friends of the deceased, when if the local
Undertaker had been properly skilled in the preservation and embalming
of the dead, the friends could have been gratified by not only having a
proper funeral at its destination, but they would have had the
satisfaction of the remains presenting a perfect and life-like
appearance. The Undertaker who will give this part of the profession a
little careful study and attention, will find that nothing will pay him
better, for as soon as the people find out that he is really a
professional undertaker, they will gladly rely upon him, and his
services will be more and more appreciated by the educated and refined
portion of the people, who always want this class of work well done, and
are willing to pay and do pay for it whenever the Undertaker can
convince them that he really understands the requirements of his
profession.

I have been told hundreds of times, by persons who have lost relatives
or friends, that they would have given $50, $100 or $200, or even $300,
if they could only have had them preserved or embalmed for even two or
three weeks, and much more if they could have had them fully embalmed.
Therefore I say that there is nothing that can possibly pay the
Undertaker better than to educate himself up to a full knowledge of the
requirements of his profession, and it certainly is a very great
inducement for him to do so when it is so easily done with the aid of
the Excelsior Preservative and the instructions which I have laid before
you.

[Illustration: [Fleuron]]




                              CHAPTER XV.
                     Absorption by the Capillaries.


It is a well established fact that the capillaries or pores of the skin
absorb liquids and many substances when in solution, as well as being
channels of excretion of waste matter from the system.

“Draper’s Human Physiology” (a standard authority) says, page 241:
“Besides exercising the functions of exhalation and perspiration,
numerous facts demonstrate that the skin exerts an absorbent action. The
endermic application of remedial agents establishes this in a
satisfactory manner. That water can find access in this way is shown by
the assuaging of the thirst which may occur on taking a bath; nor is the
amount insignificant, since it may give rise to a considerable increase
of weight.”

Salivation may be procured by the external application of mercurial
preparations, the peculiar constitutional effects of cantharides
(Spanish flies) on the urinary organs may occur from their external
contact with the skin, and a multitude of such instances can be adduced
to show the tendency to absorption through the pores of the skin.

From the above established facts, the risk in using poisonous substances
for embalming purposes—more particularly solutions of arsenic—is greater
than is generally realized. This deadly poison (arsenic) is so
peculiarly diffusive and penetrating that it is even injurious to sleep
in rooms papered with green wall-paper, the green coloring matter used
in printing such colors on wall-paper being an arsenical preparation.

Contact of the naked skin with any arsenical solution is attended with
risk in exact proportion to the extent and duration of such contact, the
thickness of the skin, and some other modifications, as, for instance,
this deadly poison (arsenic) will be absorbed more readily through the
pores of the back of the hand than through the calloused palm, much more
readily through the epithelial covering of the lips than other better
protected parts of the body, and even if the Embalmer is careless of the
consequences to himself from using such dangerous material for his work,
he is in duty bound to take into consideration when using embalming
preparations that the friends and relatives often take a parting kiss
from the face of their dead after the application of such preparations,
and he should use none that contain any such dangerous ingredients.

All such risks, both to the Embalmer himself and to all who come into
contact in any manner with the dead, are entirely avoided when using the
Excelsior Preservative. It is a perfect antidote, not only for septic
poisoning from contact with infectious matter in handling dead bodies,
but also a sure antidote to the dangerous effects arising from the use
of any poisonous solutions that may be used for embalming purposes; and
if for any reason such are used, or if there is any suspicion of danger
of being inoculated with poisonous matter, I would urge for your own
safety and protection that you freely use the Preservative, bathing your
hands or any part that may be exposed to contact with the poison, as the
free application of the Preservative will neutralize and destroy the
poisonous matter and prevent any unpleasant or serious consequences.

The Preservative is not only perfectly harmless in its external contact
with living flesh, but it is even remarkably curative in its effects
when applied to chapped hands, sores, or even fresh cuts. This is, as a
matter of course, outside of its legitimate use as an Embalming
preparation, and I refer to it only as indicating the radical difference
between the arsenical and other poisonous solutions (_the so-called
“fluids”_) and the Excelsior Preservative, which last contains no such
dangerous ingredients.

[Illustration: [Fleuron]]




                              CHAPTER XVI.
                         Embalming Instruments.


Much can be accomplished in restoring and retaining the natural
appearance and color of the exposed portions of a dead body, and
decomposition can be retarded for a time by using the Preservative
freely externally and without the aid of instruments, wetting clothes
with it and applying to the face, neck, and hands to restore and retain
their natural color, and also over the bowels where decomposition first
sets in, which application will delay its progress for a time, as the
Preservative is very penetrating, but a good set of Embalming
instruments are almost indispensable for every undertaker to be
possessed of, as there will often be cases where there is a necessity
for cavity injection to hold the body a number of days for the arrival
of distant friends, and occasionally for Arterial Embalming for shipment
to long distances.

It would be out of place for us to advertise our Instruments in a work
of this kind, and we would simply say that we invite correspondence in
regard to Instruments desirable for use. We would prefer to supply our
customers with a good set of Instruments at a nominal price to cover the
cost of manufacture rather than to have them remain without them or be
using inferior ones, as the best results in Embalming are attained only
with the best tools which rule holds good in every kind of work.

We have on hand Instruments of every description for every kind of
Embalming work, from sets consisting of those used only for partial
embalming, up to complete sets in elegant Cabinets with every tool
required for any purpose. Our syringe has a screw fitting turned on the
suction end so that any of the tubes or the Gas-trocar can be fitted on
and collections of fluid in the body pumped out with it.

All the tubes and the Gas-trocar are nickel plated and non-corrosive,
and we would call especial attention to our improved Gas-trocar which is
the most complete tool of its kind ever manufactured being superior to
any other as it is so constructed that it will not clog.

Sets of Instruments will be sent to our customers on approval if
desired.

[Illustration: [Fleuron]]




                             CHAPTER XVII.
      Caution to be used in Storing and Keeping the Preservative.


It is of the greatest importance that the Preservative be kept entirely
_free from mixture_ with any other substance, as, owing to the peculiar
combination of the chemicals used in the process of its manufacture, an
addition of even a small portion of any foreign substances, especially
any of the _Arsenical Solutions_ sometimes used for embalming purposes,
will completely change its character and destroy some of its most
valuable properties.

We call particular attention to this matter as we have more than once
traced up the cause for a complaint of the quality of some particular
shipment of the Preservative to the fact that the customer has had one
or more kinds of “_fluid_” on hand and in some careless moment has
emptied back some little left over, into the package containing our
Preservative to its very great injury. Even keeping the Preservative in
wood totally destroys its efficiency as an Embalming preparation and
therefore it should never under contingency be kept in wooden packages.
It should always be kept in the glass packages in which it is shipped,
or in some other glass vessel.

Every package that is sent out is exactly like every other package in
regard to the quality of the Preservative it contains, and its contents
will never deteriorate in any length of time it may be kept providing
that no other substance be added.




                               APPENDIX.


TO OUR CUSTOMERS:

We have appended to the foregoing treatise on Embalming some few of the
letters we are constantly receiving from our customers, giving their
unbiassed opinion of the merits of the Excelsior Preservative, entirely
unsolicited on our part and without the least idea of publication on the
part of the writers.

To such of our good friends and customers who find such an expression
from themselves printed in this book, we ask pardon for the publicity
given to their letters, trusting that the good company in which they
will find themselves, among the leading members of their profession,
will be our best excuse for the liberty we have ventured to take.

Want of space prevents us from printing but a very small portion of the
thousands of commendatory letters we have in our hands, and for the same
reason we print only such portions of the letters as will fairly give
the opinions of the writers thereof.

                                          Respectfully yours,
                                                          CRANE & ALLEN.




                   Commendatory Letters and Extracts.


                                           New York City, Jan. 21, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please duplicate the last bill of your Preservative sent to us—56
gallons I think. It has given us great satisfaction.

                                                        STEPHEN MERRITT.

And again April 30, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please send us as soon as possible one hundred gallons of your
Preservative. Let one carboy come by express at once. The Preservative
gives perfect satisfaction.

                                                        STEPHEN MERRITT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Newton, Kansas, Aug. 3, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

If you will please to duplicate the invoice of May 11th. (13 gallons)
you may do so at your earliest convenience. We like the Preservative
very much and will use no other as long as we can get as good from you.

                                                      EDWARDS & CORLETT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Cortland, N. Y., March 9, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have just commenced on the last two carboys you sent us. We listened
to outside parties and let them unload 20 gallons of “Fluid” upon us
that might answer for winter use. We have now done with experimenting
and hereafter you may count on our sticking to the “C. & A.”
Preservative.

                                                      EDGCOMB & BALLARD.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Clinton, Mass., April 10, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We like your Preservative, knowing just what it will do, and have got
all over experimenting with other preparations. Will let you know in
ample season for another supply.

                                                     LUCIUS, FIELD & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          St. Louis, Mo., Oct. 22, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I like your Preservative better than any other, as it removes
discoloration quicker and don’t stain clothing and I think it is much
better in every particular.

                                          JOS. P. MURRELL,
                                                  1322 & 1324 Market St.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Lowell, Mass., May 15, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am well pleased with your Preservative, have got some other kinds
also, but I like yours best. I find some difficulty sometimes in using
fluid in place of ice, as some want ice anyway, but I have the best
success with the Preservative.

                                                        J. H. McDERMOTT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           McLean, N. Y., Aug. 24, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I must say that your Preservative is the only Embalming fluid that
“fills the bill” in every respect.

                                                            A. A. McKEE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Rockford, Ill., May 31, 1985.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have been using some other kinds for some time past, but I like your
Preservative much the best.

                                                            H. E. MARSH.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                 Chicago, July 12, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I had a funeral yesterday in a family which had a funeral about a year
ago. They said the undertaker then used a preparation which was so
poisonous that a daughter of the deceased was laid up, confined to her
bed six weeks as a result, and has never fully recovered. This not from
having drank or tasted the chemical, but simply from having made the
applications of dampened clothes to the face, etc. They did not at first
know what was the matter, but the doctors found arsenic in the raisings
from the stomach, the result of inhalation and absorption. This
undertaker, by the way, does not use your Preservative.

                                                       S. C. POSTLEWAIT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Ottawa, Ill., Sept. 22, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We are not in need of fluid just now, but when we are will send you an
order. We consider your Preservative the best Fluid in the market.

                                                    PETER RUSSELL & SON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Warsaw, N. Y., June 11, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have been using other preparations, and having been in former years a
druggist, have made and used largely my own preparations for embalming,
but there are many things about your Preservative I like better than
others used, and I intend to keep it in stock and use it.

                                                         A. B. LAWRENCE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Coatesville, Pa., April 10, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Refill and return carboy with your Preservative at once. It is the best
embalming preparation that I ever used, and I feel safer with it than
anything else of the kind.

                                                           E. S. LANDIS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Lake City, Minn., June 30, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN

Enclosed is draft on Chicago for amount of your bill. We have tried your
Preservative and like it very much.

                                                 LAKE CITY FURNITURE CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Marengo, Ills., May 3, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

What I have used of the Preservative has given the best of satisfaction.
I do not think I shall need any more very soon, but I shall order of
you, as I think it cannot be beat.

                                                        GEO. E. DIGGINS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Charlestown District,           }
                                         Boston, Mass., Nov. 15, 1886. }

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am very much pleased with the Preservative, and it has not only done
its work well on ordinary cases, but on very difficult ones in the
severest of hot weather.

                                                       CHARLES L. PERRY.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                    Nebraska City, Neb., March 24, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Send five gallons of the Preservative. Am offered Fluid very cheap, but
prefer the Preservative, as I am always sure of getting a good article.
I just had a case where I restored the color from black to marble white
with it.

                                                         C. N. KARSTENS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Wellston, O., March 3, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am glad to say that your Preservative has never failed to do its work
yet. I have been using it for nearly five years and in some very bad
cases.

                                                         C. M. RICHARDS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                      GREENFIELD, Mass., Sept. 12, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative gives full satisfaction. I enclose draft for last
bill.

                                                            J. L. LYONS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Reading, Penn., April 5, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The people in this locality are prejudiced against embalming and I have
had hard work to introduce it, but they begin to see it now differently.
As an illustration, I will give you a case I had last season: A lady
died and some of the family were in Florida, and they wished the body
kept until their return. I embalmed the body with your Preservative and
after it had laid in the house a week the neighbors began to make a
fuss, and threatened to complain to the Board of Health, and annoyed the
family so that they requested me to remove the body to my house; I did
so, keeping it in the casket and kept it two weeks longer. When the
friends arrived the body was shipped then 150 miles and buried, and it
was in much better condition when buried than the day she died—no smell
or signs of decay whatever.

                                                           E. S. MILLER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                 Chicago, July 16, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Enclosed is money order for last bill of your Preservative. I am well
satisfied with it and shall order more in a week or two.

                                               OSCAR MEISTER,
                                                   845 Milwaukee Avenue.

And again, Dec. 12, 1885:

CRANE & ALLEN:

Although I can buy Fluid here for less than your Preservative, I would
rather give you more for yours.

                                                          OSCAR MEISTER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Sandwich, Ill., May 4, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Enclosed find draft for $36.00 for bill of Sept. 7, ’86, and send us at
once 12 gallons of Preservative. We are well pleased with it.

                                                      J. BUCKHART & SON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Hope, Ind., Sept. 26, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have given the Preservative a fair trial and have found it to surpass
any fluid that we have ever purchased. Please fill demijohn and return
to us.

                                                         COHEE & SPAUGH.

And again, Jan. 16, 1886:

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please send us six gallons more of the Preservative. It is the best
Fluid we can get.

                                                         COHEE & SPAUGH.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Natchez, Miss., July 14, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have used your Preservative with great success and it has a grand
reputation here. In one case I was not called upon to embalm until 48
hours after death, and the face and neck was black, yet it was kept five
days in July and every one wanted to know how I managed to keep the body
so well.

                                                          R. H. STEWART.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Gilman, Ill., Feb. 4, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I acknowledge the receipt of the demijohn of the Preservative, and
should have ordered sooner, but last spring I bought out an Undertaker’s
stock in Onarga with a quantity of “Embalming Fluid,” which supplied me
for a time, but I like yours the best of any that I have used and shall
in the future depend upon yours altogether when I can get it.

                                                          W. P. GARDNER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Trenton, N. J., Aug. 9, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Ship 20 gallons of Preservative by freight. I shall use more of it
hereafter as I most assuredly like it.

                                                       BENJ. L. DISBROW.

                  *       *       *       *       *

NOTE.—The three following letters from N. Greenlund, of Warren, Pa.,
should be read in connection with each other:

                                             Warren, Pa., July 23, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Enclosed please find check for $15.00, for last bill. You need not send
any at present. Have no fault to find with your Preservative, has given
good satisfaction, but have got some now that seems to do the work and
for less money.

                                                           N. GREENLUND.

And again on August 28, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Having lately been induced to buy some “Fluid” for less money than yours
with guarantee “to be as good as yours”—maybe it is, but it does not
give me the same satisfaction, therefore please send me a demijohn of
the Excelsior Preservative and oblige,

                                                           N. GREENLUND.

And again on Sept. 12, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative is received and commenced to use it, and will say in
the language of some other undertaker’s when in convention some time
since: “It is hard to keep house without Crane & Allen’s Fluid.”

                                                           N. GREENLUND.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Ripon, Wis., Aug. 21, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We enclose draft for am’t of last bill. We think your Preservative after
a test of five years that we have given it, the best that we have ever
used. It never fails to do the work.

                                                        DELANO & COOLEY.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         McKenzie, Tenn., June 12, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative is all you claim it to be, and I am satisfied it will
do all you claim for it, and that it will do to rely upon for Embalming.

                                                             E. DINNING.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Middlebury, Vt., May 20, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We are still using the Preservative entirely and are very much pleased
with it indeed and consider it perfect. We had a very hard case in a
town 10 miles from here, of a man who died in almost perfect health,
very fleshy, weight over 400 lbs. We were not called until he had been
dead 12 hours and then we found him improperly laid out, but in spite of
it all, we kept him a week by the use of the Preservative, and had a
very large funeral (he being a very prominent man). The casket stood
open and every one said it was the most life-like corpse they ever saw.

                                                          BREWSTER & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        West Chester, O., Dec. 19, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I wish to thank you for the Preservative, as it has done all and more
than you claimed for it. Our doctor used some of it and says he never
saw anything to equal it for blood poisoning. Enclosed $15.00; give me
credit for it.

                                                             F. M. LONG.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Westfield, N. Y., Jan. 20, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Enclosed find draft for your bill. I have not used all of the
Preservative yet, but have used many kinds and have no hesitation in
saying that yours is the best. Shall use no other in future.

                                                     SAM’L. C. CRANDELL.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                              Bryan, Ohio, May 26, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have great faith in your Preservative and will always guarantee that I
can hold a body in good shape by the use of it.

                                                          A. C. DILLMAN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Oregon, Wis., Oct. 28, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have now used your Preservative so long that we are satisfied. We
have had such good results from it that it is best to continue its use.
It is a great advantage to the Undertaker where the body is to be kept
an exceedingly long time, to have something to rely upon, and we have
always had good success with the Preservative.

                                                      LINDSAY & WACKMAN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          West Milton, O., May 25, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I had a good chance to test your Preservative. A woman died in another
Undertaker’s territory, seven miles from here, and was put into an ice
box with 250 or 300 lbs. of ice, and with all that the body got black
and swollen, and people became alarmed and wanted to bury her at once,
but the friends objected and sent for me. I took her out of the ice box,
let off the gas and used your Preservative, and at the funeral she
looked as natural as life. I could refer you to several other cases, but
I suppose it is not necessary.

                                                           JACOB MILLER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Cairo, Ills., Oct. 29, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I was not out when I wrote to you for the price in large quantities. Am
using it a good deal and think it can’t be beat.

                                                               N. FEITH.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Cortland, N. Y., Sept. 4, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have begun to use your Preservative and think it is better than
anything I have ever used. I had on hand 10 gallons of another kind when
yours came, which is the reason why I had not used yours before. You
will hear from me again soon.

                                                         R. B. FLETCHER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Pottstown, Penn., May 20, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I send two empties, which you can fill with your Preservative and return
to me. I have used no ice since using the Preservative, and have kept
all kind of cases good.

                                                       JAMES M. FILLMEN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Austin, Minn., Jan. 11, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have bought “Fluid” from other parties lately, as Mr. Fernald was
away and I did not know at first where to order. Mr. F. has since spoken
very highly of your Preservative, and we will give you the next order.

                                                           FERNALD & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                      Moundsville, W. Va., Nov. 9, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I like your Preservative very well. It does the work well, and I have
given it a pretty good trial and am well satisfied that it is all you
claim it to be.

                                                            D. L. LOGAN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Freeport, Ills., Mar. 31, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We are well pleased with the Preservative, and you can refer any of your
customers to us.

                                                             D. KUEHNER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                              Montpelier, Oct. 27, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I would as soon be without coffins as to be without your Preservative. I
have tried a number of kinds, but none equals yours.

                                                             N. G. LASH.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Mt. Sterling, Ky., May 4, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative has given satisfaction, and we will send you an order
for more this season.

                                                     JNO. LINDSEY & SON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Fargo, Dakota, Dec. 12, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative is the best thing of the kind we have ever used.

                                                     LUGER FURNITURE CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Plainfield, Ind., Jan. 24, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

You will find enclosed draft for $21.00. Am not entirely out, but you
may send me another carboy of the Preservative. I had a case last summer
that proved the excellency of your fluid. The man died of lung fever and
heart disease combined, and in about five or six hours after death he
turned purple all over the body, not unlike a flesh blood-blister. I
injected about half of a gallon of the Preservative into the Brachial
Artery, and in less than 24 hours the discoloration had disappeared, and
at the day of the funeral some of the friends wanted to put it off on
account of his life-like appearance.

                                                         SEBASTIAN HISS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Mt. Blanchard, O., June 2, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have never had a failure in the use of your Preservative, and have
had a good many bad cases to handle. We kept one subject with it from
Oct. 29th to the 1st of April following.

                                                     J. W. PICKETT & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                      Webster City, Iowa, Aug. 17, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Enclosed find draft for bill. Your Preservative is first-class; none
better in the world.

                                                        J. W. ALLINGTON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Joliet, Ills., May 22, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We return pkges. for refilling with the Preservative. We can buy what
are considered “standard makes of Fluid” for about one-third less, but
we have given yours the preference, as its workings have been so very
satisfactory.

                                                 S. S. CHAMBERLIN & SON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Hamilton, Ohio, Oct. 24, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please send us carboy of your Preservative right away, as we like it
very well.

                                                       J. CROWLEY & SON.

And again, July 1, 1885:—

CRANE & ALLEN:

The Preservative is giving us perfect satisfaction.

                                                       J. CROWLEY & SON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Edgerton, Wis., June 1, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I shall use no other kind of Embalming Fluid but yours, as it gives the
best of satisfaction.

                                                           W. H. CLARKE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Frankfort, Ind., April 25, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We are very much pleased with the Preservative, and we give you an order
for ten gallons of it, which please ship at once.

                                                          COMLEY & BIRD.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Galesburg, Mich., Feb. 3, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have had a good opportunity to find out what fluid would stand the
weather lately. I had some of two kinds, of what is called “Standard”
makes of fluid by the side of some of your Preservative and all in
bottles, and all froze and broke the bottles but Crane & Allen’s, and
that did not. I shall use only yours hereafter.

                                                          HENRY LABBITT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                    East Liverpool, Ohio, Aug. 25, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative is the best I ever used. I tell you I have done some
nice work with it. Will use no other if I can get yours.

                                                         J. W. ALBRIGHT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                 Chicago, June 25, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Enclosed please find New York draft to apply on account. We think your
Preservative is the best we have ever used.

                                                      FRED H. RUSS & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Baltimore, Md., Jan. 26, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I like your Preservative and have recommended it to other Undertakers in
this city. It will never fail any one using it right, and it will take
the lead if you keep it up to the present standard.

                                                              JOHN LAKE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Jamestown, N. Y., Dec. 30, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Enclosed find check ($74.70) in settlement of account to date as per
statement, and you may duplicate the last shipment. We do not hesitate
to say that we are more than pleased with your Preservative, and it
gives better satisfaction than any we ever used of any other make.

                                                   PARTRIDGE & VANDUSEN.

And again, on Feb. 11, 1886:—

CRANE & ALLEN:

We are more than pleased with the results from the use of your
Preservative, and wonder why so many use other preparations that we have
tried and know do not equal yours.

                                                   PARTRIDGE & VANDUSEN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Coal Center, Pa., May 29, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have been offered “Fluid” that is called good for less than yours
cost, but I have tried already several kinds of such and none give
satisfaction equal to yours, the coldest weather last winter had no
effect on it.

                                                           GEO. J. LONG.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Eau Claire, Wis., Oct. 19, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Send me a carboy of the Excelsior Preservative. It is the best I ever
used and is just splendid.

                                                           J. A. LAWLER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Circleville, Ohio, Aug. 20, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We think a great deal of your Preservative and have had splendid success
with it, in fact we have “been raised on” Crane & Allen’s Preservative.

                                                        ALBAUGH & LANUM.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Hudson, Wis., Aug. 18, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We lately had a case that we considered a test of your Preservative. It
was a case of death by accident, body mutilated. We shipped it and it
arrived in good condition. We like the Preservative better every time we
use it.

                                                          T. BEARD & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Chebanse, Ill., Sept. 21, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have had some severe cases lately. One a lady who died of an abdominal
tumor from which over a wooden pail full of fetid matter was taken; the
body was badly swollen and very offensive, the whole house tainted. At
the time of the funeral the rooms and the body were perfectly sweet.
Another case of a man killed by lightning, and it took four hours to
work off the gasses and do the work; and another case of a child which
was kept a week during the hottest weather of last month (August). I am
very well pleased with the results from using your Preservative in all
of the above cases and will order more of it.

                                                            S. S. BAKER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Streator, Ill., Nov. 7, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The Preservative is working splendidly.

                                                          H. F. HOWLAND.

And again June 8, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative is a No. 1. article and I have given it some extra
good tests.

                                                          H. F. HOWLAND.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Dansville, N. Y., Oct. 16, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The Preservative works to perfection and I believe I could keep a body
as long as I had a mind to with it.

                                                       GEO. R. HURLBURT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Groton, N. Y., June 12, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative is all right, and we shall want more of it. We have
used others some of the time, but yours does the best work.

                                                      J. I. BOOTH & SON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Jamesport, Mo., Dec. 26, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please send me another shipment of your Preservative. I could not do
without it now, as I find it superior to anything I have seen.

                                                            A. B. BUREN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Oskaloosa, Iowa, Oct. 15, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I dare not use some of the “fluids,” once having lost four finger nails
in using one kind, and others harden the skin and benumbs the fingers so
that the touch is not as delicate as desired. I will now stick by your
Preservative as it is just as nice for the undertakers hands as can be,
softens and cleanses so nicely that it is a pleasure to use it and it
has never failed us in embalming. I like it again from the fact that
when a gallon of it is injected into the arteries the face and other
surfaces are whitened which others I have tried does not do, therefore
the friends can better see the effect of your work.

                                                          J. B. McCURDY.

And again on June 14, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I ordered 10 gallons of “fluid” because the party of whom I ordered was
such a nice “demonstrator” and although I gave my hands only one light
wash of it; it was bidding fair to be as bad for them as ever any of the
“fluids” were, and I will use it up with gloves, but gentlemen, I find
on account of my hands and the satisfaction that the C. & A.
Preservative gives me, that I will have no other, when through with the
10 gallons referred to.

                                                          J. B. McCURDY.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Thomaston, Conn., Jan. 14, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I shall want more of your Preservative on the approach of warm weather
as I like it very much, shall not need any before April or May.

                                                          R. T. ANDREWS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Lisbon, Iowa, Aug. 8, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please send another pkge. of the Preservative. Am not quite out and
don’t want to be. It does just what you claim for it, and is the best
preparation I ever used.

                                                              H. BUCHER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           DuBois, Penn., Feb. 10, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative has given splendid satisfaction and I have had the
best kind of success with it, and I have no trouble in keeping a body
any length of time with it.

                                                              A. L. HOY.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Canaseraga, N. Y., Aug. 10, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Send some more of the Preservative to me at this place, where I have
removed to from Dansville. Your Preservative works like a charm.

                                                       GEO. R. HURLBURT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Janesville, Wis., Sept. 19, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The instruments are received, and are just what we wanted and are even
nicer than I expected. I can assure you that no other “Fluid” but Crane
& Allen’s Preservative will ever fill an artery that they open while I
handle them. We like the Preservative very much.

                                                JANESVILLE FURNITURE CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                     Wheeling, West Va., March 14, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have sold out my undertaking business, but I shall take pleasure in
recommending your Preservative to anyone, as I know what it is, and you
may refer anyone to me if you want to.

                                                            ROBERT LUKE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Gloucester, Mass., Aug. 22, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

An Undertaker came over to see me from Newburyport yesterday, to
ascertain how I managed to keep bodies so nice that were under my care.
He being an Undertaker of some note, I took some pride in letting him
see me embalm a body with your Preservative, and he was so well pleased
that he will order some of you at once.

                                                             JOHN LLOYD.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Wooster, Ohio, Oct. 26, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have used other Fluids in the same way as yours, and for arterial
embalming I prefer your Preservative. Have used about 30 gallons since
June last.

                                                           D. Y. LANDIS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                               Fair Haven, May 21, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Send me a pkge. of the Preservative. I can buy “Fluids” cheaper, but I
know yours is good and don’t want to take chances on something that
might go back on me.

                                                           GEO. C. LYON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Wadsworth, O., Jan. 18, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We had considerable of other Fluids on hand when we got your
Preservative, and have some yet. We like yours the best, and won’t use
any other after this.

                                                      KREMER & OPLINGER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Wheaton, Ills., Aug. 29, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I return carboy, which please fill with the Preservative and return to
me. It has given first-class satisfaction and I am well pleased with it.

                                                           CONRAD KAMPP.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Malvern, Ohio, June 23, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have not had occasion to open the last pkge. of the Preservative, as
there is but little embalming to do here just now, unless I should
attempt to preserve the earth, which I think your Preservative would do.

                                                           GEO. DECKMAN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Binghamton, N. Y., June 5, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have sold out my business to D. G. Mulford & Co., and have urged them
to use your Preservative as being the best there is. They think it is
rather expensive, but I tell them that it is cheaper than any,
considering the work it will do. You write them, and I think they will
try it.

                                                            J. S. FREAR.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Bonaparte, Iowa, Dec. 14, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have been using your Preservative for some time, and prefer it to any
other kind of Embalming Fluid. It gives perfect satisfaction.

                                                         GEO. A. DEMPLE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Morris, Ills., June 20, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have been trying other kinds of “Fluid” lately, but find your
Preservative to be the best. We have thoroughly demonstrated that the
Preservative will give better satisfaction in all cases than any kind
yet made.

                                                             DAVIS BROS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Mt. Vernon, O., Aug. 27, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have decided never to use any “Fluid” but yours. It is the best we
ever saw. About a month ago we gave it a good test, and kept a man who
died very sudden—weighed 225 lbs. We kept him five days in his parlor,
and he looked better than he did the day he died. We then placed him in
the vault and ten days afterwards we took his wife and family to see
him, and he looked as well as ever. It was the largest funeral we have
had in 20 years, in this city. We now know just what to count upon to
keep a corpse, and that is Crane & Allen’s Preservative.

                                                  J. H. McCORMICK & SON.

And again, Jan. 4, 1888:

CRANE & ALLEN:

We enter the New Year without any of your Preservative, and as we feel
as though we could not prosper in our business without it, please send
us ten gallons. We have a little cheap stuff that was forced upon us,
which we might get along with if it keeps cold, but you may send us ten
gallons of the Preservative.

                                                  J. H. McCORMICK & SON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Northfield, Vt., Feb. 6, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I must say of your Preservative that it is the best for removing
discoloration that I have ever used, and the best for deodorizing a
room. You may send me another carboy of it if you please.

                                                           J. L. ABBOTT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Hartford, Conn., Jan. 12, 1882.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative is first-class and we like it very much, and as soon
as we want to buy any more Fluid we will send you an order.

                                                        KENNEY & DILLON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Covington, Ky., May 10, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Send me about 15 gallons of the Preservative and don’t delay as I am out
and don’t want to use any other.

                                                    CHAS. DONNELLY & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Marengo, Ills., Sept. 9, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Enclosed draft to balance account. I have sold out to Geo. E. Diggins,
who will return pkgs. with an order. I could give you a strong
recommend, not only from myself but from J. W. Caseby, Undertaker for
many years. The last job he had without your Preservative has convinced
us of the great merits of it over others.

                                                           J. T. BELDEN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                              Bryan, Ohio, June 5, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The Preservative is giving me entire satisfaction. I had a body shipped
to me from Columbus, which had all the appearance of having been in an
ice-box for a time, then hastily jammed into a casket and shipped—the
abdomen being fearfully swollen. I kept the body over two days, by
drawing off the gas and filling the abdomen and lungs with the
Preservative, and from all appearances it would have been all right for
some time to come.

                                                          A. C. DILLMAN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Lexington, Ky., Oct. 12, 1893.

CRANE & ALLEN:

When at our convention in Cincinnati, in June, the representatives of
one of the so-called “Standard Fluids” wanted me to take a gallon of it
free, on trial, but I am satisfied with your Preservative.

                                                           T. J. DANAHY.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Anamosa, Iowa, March 31, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We enclose draft which you can give us credit for. Would say that your
Preservative is the stuff to tie to.

                                                     DUNKLEE & EASTERLY.

And again, March 26, 1887:

Rest assured that we have no occasion to try any fluid other than yours,
as it has never disappointed us and so long as it remains as it is we
have no thought of changing.

                                                     DUNKLEE & EASTERLY.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Philadelphia, April 14, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I still have some of your Preservative on hand but had it not been for
some so-called first-class funeral directors using very inferior
preparations (presumably because cheaper) and thereby losing their cases
and thus putting a temporary “black eye” on embalming, I would have used
that all up and considerable more. You may rest assured that when I want
anything of the kind I will order of you.

                                                     GEO. CHANDLER PAUL.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Greenfield, Ind., Aug. 5, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Excelsior Preservative is the best embalming fluid in America. It
has always done just what we wanted it to do.

                                                       J. P. JAMES & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Salem, Ohio., July 7, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

While other parties are offering “fluids” at a much reduced price, we do
not want to buy elsewhere as long as you still continue to furnish us as
good a fluid as your Preservative has proved to be, as it has never
failed to do just what a fluid should do.

                                                        R. & W. M. HOLE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Sunbury, Ohio., June 21, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have some of your Preservative yet and we do not use very much at this
time of the year. I do not use it in all cases as I have some that cost
much less which I use some, but when I have a bad case on hand I always
use the Excelsior Preservative, and I can recommend it to the profession
as always giving satisfactory results.

                                                            I. M. PRICE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Braidwood, Ill., Nov. 14, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The Preservative you send us has given good satisfaction and we are well
pleased with it. It has done all you claim for it and we shall continue
to handle it in preference to all others as it is a pleasure to use
something you can depend upon and that is the Crane & Allen
Preservative.

                                                   A. & J. W. PATTERSON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                  Denver, Nov. 10, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative we can say is all that you recommend it to be. We had
the care of the body of a young man who committed suicide by hanging and
when we took the body it was in bad condition, bloated and black in the
face. We embalmed him with your Preservative and shipped him to Toledo,
O., and the undertaker there said that the body came to him in the best
shape of any corpse he ever handled and wanted to know what kind of
“fluid” was used.

                                                         E. & L. GUSTIN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Chicago, Ill., March 5, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am more than satisfied with the C. & A. Preservative and shall
continue to use it.

                                                             F. CHAFFEE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                              Eaton, O., April 14, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please send us a package of the Preservative and oblige, as we are out
of it. Have been trying two other kinds, but they don’t do the work like
yours and we do not think we will experiment on any other fluid soon.

                                                  G. W. CHURCHILL & SON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Salem, Mass., Aug. 1, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please send by express at once, a large carboy of the Preservative. I
would say that after using all kinds of embalming fluids in the market,
I am obliged to write you that your Preservative has proved the most
satisfactory and I have had the best results from its use.

                                                        WM. H. CHANDLER.

And again, Oct. 5, 1885:

CRANE & ALLEN:

I cannot speak too much in praise of your Preservative. It is the best I
have ever used and I have used a great many kinds.

                                                        WM. H. CHANDLER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Greensburg, Ind., Nov. 3, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please send us six or eight gallons of the Preservative; we have but
little left, and would like it sent promptly. A loud noise is made by
the blowing of horns for other preparations, but our Mr. Siling says he
has the grand confidence in both the Preservative and the men who
manufacture it.

                                                GREENSBURG FURNITURE CO.

And again, on Aug. 29, 1885:

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative is the best stock in the world, we think.

                                                GREENSBURG FURNITURE CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Flemingsburg, Ky., April 7, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I like your Preservative very much.

                                                        THOS. J. HINTON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Cincinnati, O., Aug. 11, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Excelsior Preservative is the “boss,” and we intend in the future
to use it altogether.

                                                     N. H. HACKMAN & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Danbury, Conn., Sept. 4, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We are very much pleased in the use of your Preservative. The results
are very satisfactory to us.

                                                         HAWLEY & SAYER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        New Hampton, Iowa, Aug. 8, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have just used the Preservative in two cases, and it gave better
satisfaction than any I ever used. One was a lady who died of
inflammation and when I was called she was discolored badly and bloated
and very offensive; and at the time of the funeral she was looking
entirely natural, and with not the least offensive odor. The other was a
dropsical case, and when I went to take care of it the stench was so bad
I could hardly stand it; but when I was done with it the odor was
entirely destroyed and body as natural as in life.

                                                           A. McDONNELL.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Quincy, Ohio, Sept. 24, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We must say that your Preservative has given perfect satisfaction, and
we intend to let well enough alone and use nothing else.

                                                          MEANS & LEACH.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Winchenden, Mass., June 23, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We had good success with the case, using your Preservative, last week,
with four as hot days as we have had this summer, and the body looked A
1.

                                                         N. C. MATTHEWS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                     New Martinsburg, O., Jan. 21, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have been using your Preservative the last six or seven years, and as
long as I can get it I do not intend to use any other, as I have had the
very best success with it.

                                                             D. BARRETT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                     Mineral Point, Wis., July 11, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have all the Preservative I shall need this season. I shall be pleased
to recommend it to anyone, as I can do with a clear conscience, as I
have used it for several years and have never lost a case where I have
done my work as well as I knew how. I always use, in an adult, three
quarts to a gallon, as I do not care for a little Fluid if I keep the
case in good shape. Can make a better charge and get it easier.

                                                           A. F. BISHOP.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                      Grand Haven, Mich., Aug. 13, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have found your Preservative entirely satisfactory, and it will be our
pleasure to continue our orders from time to time as wanted.

                                                           JAMES BARNES.

And again, August 5, 1884:

CRANE & ALLEN:

We enclose money order for last bill. We think your Preservative the
best of anything in the market.

                                                           JAMES BARNES.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Philadelphia, Jan. 24, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Having made some business arrangements I cannot order any of your Fluid,
yet your Fluid I cannot but say is one of the best, in my opinion, in
the market.

                                                          JOHN C. RULON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Memphis, Tenn., April 25, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Received your Preservative and determined to give it a fair trial. I
procured a body from the City Hospital and injected Brachial Artery,
using five quarts, and also filled cavities through the throat and
through Trocar. I placed body in inclined position and kept face bathed
with the Preservative as directed, for several days. This is the sixth
week, and the body is in good condition, no smell or odor from it—it has
been exposed to the air most of the time. I am very much pleased with
your Preservative, and place great confidence in it.

                                               ROB’T H. JONES,
                                       _Embalmer for J. F. Holst & Bro._

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Coopersburg, Pa., Oct. 23, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please send me five gallons of the Excelsior Preservative at once. I am
out of it and cannot get along without it.

                                                            JOEL RITTER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Rochester, Mich., Sept. 19, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I consider your Preservative the “Ne Plus Ultra” of embalming
preparations and intend using it as long as it gives such satisfaction
as it has in past cases.

                                                       W. HARVEY GREENE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                     St. Thomas, Ontario, Sept, 9, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have used your Preservative in several cases and find it excellent.

                                                         SAMUEL GOODWIN.

And again, on Feb. 20, 1885:

CRANE & ALLEN:

You may send me another supply of the Preservative about May 1st. It is
a first-class article.

                                                         SAMUEL GOODWIN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Baraboo, Wis., Jan. 11, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have used your Preservative with very good success and think it cannot
be surpassed in any particular. I manufacture an article which is cheap
and although not quite as safe and reliable as yours, it seems to answer
ordinary purposes, but in difficult cases I use yours.

                                                               C. BACON.

And again, June 3, 1884:

CRANE & ALLEN:

The Preservative came this morning. I had such good success with that I
had before of you that I did not dare to be without it. Have just
received intelligence from the South of the condition of a body I sent
there a short time since and embalmed with your Preservative. By some
mistake things were not in readiness for the burial of the body on
arrival and funeral had to be postponed. What surprised every one was
that there was not the least indication of dissolution in odor or color,
but a natural and healthful appearance of a gentle sleep at the time of
the funeral.

                                                               C. BACON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Cincinnati, Ohio, Jan. 15, 1882.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The Preservative is perfectly satisfactory and we will need some more of
it.

                                                    F. W. GERSTLE & SON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Louisiana, Mo., Aug. 4, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have never failed to give entire satisfaction with your Preservative
in every case.

                                                           J. M. GENTRY.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Hulmeville, Penn., July 20, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

What is the price of your Preservative? I have been recommended to get
it by Robt. R. Bringhurst of Philadelphia, as being the best fluid of
any in his estimation.

                                                         L. P. TOWNSEND.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Atchison, Kansas, Aug. 14, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Enclosed please find draft to cover last bill. The Preservative has
given me good satisfaction.

                                                         J. A. HARROUFF.

And again, Dec. 31, 1886:

CRANE & ALLEN:

I make my own fluid for all ordinary use, and use only your Preservative
when I have to ship a body or keep it for a considerable time. Shall
want some more next season.

                                                         J. A. HARROUFF.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Corning, N. Y., April 16, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please express me a medium size package of the Preservative. I can’t get
along without it.

                                                           J. W. DARRIN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                    Wilton Junction, Iowa, May 25, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We like your Preservative very much, and as soon as we get nearly out of
it will return the carboy for more of it.

                                                       JACOBY & RYERSON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Kenosha, Wis., July 18, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Send us a supply of the Preservative at once as we have only a little
left having used a good deal of it lately. If you want any references in
regard to the Preservative you can just refer them to us. Our Mr. Hansen
has used it with success for some years and knows what it will do; we
like it first rate.

                                                          HANSEN & HUCK.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Rockville, Ind., Feb. 22, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative has done all we wish it to do, and we would not be
without it for anything, as it is so pleasant and safe to work with.

                                                          HARGRAVE BROS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                              Alma, Neb., Aug. 16, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

You can ship me six or eight gallons of the Preservative at once. I
would have ordered some sooner, but had some on hand. After five years
use of your Preservative that I have had, I can recommend it and you can
refer any one to me if you want to.

                                                            J. M. DAVIS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Meadville, Penn., March 3, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have plenty of the Preservative on hand at present, the last shipment
seems to hold out like the “widow’s cruse of oil.” Am satisfied with
your Preservative, although I can buy “fluids” cheaper.

                                                             L. D. DUNN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Gettysburg, O., June 13, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We highly appreciate the Preservative, knowing as we do its value by
having heretofore weighed it in the test balance and found nothing
wanting. We would find it hard to dispense with.

                                                           HERSHEY BROS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Danville, Ky., Feb. 16, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We still have some of the Preservative left, as the art of embalming is
not practiced much here with us. We wish to say however, that we
understand the business and every case we have had with your
Preservative has been successful.

                                                     DUNLAP & McGOODWIN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Burlington, Vt., Jan. 11, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We are well suited with your Preservative, for it has never failed us
when we have used it, and shall feel perfectly safe in recommending it
hereafter as a sure preventative and deodorizer as well as a
preservative.

                                                           M. W. HOSMER.

And again, Dec. 14, 1885:

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have sold out to C. F. Brown and have recommended him to use your
Preservative, as I have all faith in it, and had I continued in the
business I never should change it for anything else. You may count on me
as one that can recommend the Preservative, as it has never gone back on
me.

                                                           M. W. HOSMER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Shawnee, Ohio, Aug. 21, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative is certainly everything that it is recommended to be.
We have used it in cases that were as bad as could be with the most
gratifying results. One case of a lady who died from the effects of
child-birth, and we considered it a very bad case; we used the
Preservative and kept her five days and shipped her to Parkersburg, W.
Va.—weather very warm and rainy. Disinterested parties reported to us
that the body was as natural as life when buried.

                                                       HUDSON & TIPPETT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Seymour, Conn., Aug. 17, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please send me ten gallons of Preservative, such as I had before. If as
good as that I can ask nothing better. I like it the best of anything
that I have ever tried.

                                                          E. F. BASSETT.

And again, on Sept. 28, 1885:

CRANE & ALLEN:

The Preservative still continues to give perfect satisfaction in all
cases and I have no wish to change, although I am often urged to try
others claiming to be as good and cheaper; but I prefer yours, as I know
just what we can do with it and always have good success. Have a body
now embalmed with it that was in very bad condition when I took it, and
the friends thought it impossible to keep it, but it is keeping
splendidly.

                                                          E. F. BASSETT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Liberty Centre, O., Aug. 9, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I can say that I have had better success with your Preservative than
with any preparation I have ever used. Have thoroughly tested it in the
last two weeks, with the thermometer at 98 and 100. One case of heart
disease, very fleshy, another of a lady who died of cancer,—the first
body was kept a week and the other five days, and the results could not
have been better. I like the Preservative, also, because it does not
make the hands rough and harsh, as other preparations do, and because it
will drive out all the bad smell in a short time. Send me at once
another supply, as I cannot do without it.

                                                           N. C. WRIGHT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Willoughby, O., Feb. 9, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please send another supply of Preservative. I think I could not do
business without it; I have all confidence in it and consider it No. 1.

                                                       GEO. E. MANVILLE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Oconto, Wis., Sept. 14, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I had a case in July last of a young lady whom I embalmed with your
Preservative and shipped to Edgerton, and the enclosed extract from the
Milwaukee _Sentinel_ of July 25th is in regard to the appearance of the
body:

“On Wednesday last, a young lady died suddenly at Oconto, and her
remains where brought home to Edgerton for interment. A most singular
thing, however, is that the remains were not buried on the day of the
funeral. Although apparently dead, the usual evidences of dissolution
are not present and there are no signs of it visible. The young lady
before her death exacted a promise from her mother that she should not
be buried until she was satisfied she was really dead. The remains will
not be interred until her death is established beyond all question of
dispute.”

It seems they were not satisfied that she was dead until the seventh day
afterwards. There could have been no question, however, of her death, as
she was regularly embalmed by me, and the life-like appearance was due
to the Preservative used.

                                                         N. B. MITCHELL.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Hastings, Neb., March 21, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have always had the very best of results since using your
Preservative. We used it on a case only about a week ago, and shipped a
lady to Illinois and have just received word that the remains arrived
and looked as well as when it left here.

                                                             COX & REED.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Mancelona, Mich., Nov, 19, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We would not be without your Preservative, as it gives perfect
satisfaction and we regard it as indispensable in the burial of the
dead, both as a deodorizer and as a Preservative.

                                                   CHAS. BECHSTEIN & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                      Pecatonica, Ills., April 28, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We are using your Preservative and think there is nothing better in the
market. We are using it now in every case of death.

                                                         ATKINSON BRO’S.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Clarinda, Iowa, March 19, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Send two carboys of the Preservative. I like it; have done some good
work with it; in fact, have astonished some people by the change it will
make in the appearance of a dead body.

                                                          A. T. CLEMENT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                     Chillicothe, Ills., Sept. 17, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We received last month from you the package of the Preservative, and
last week I had my first case of embalming—an old man who died from
dysentery, and the friends wanted the body kept until relatives arrived
from Kansas. I had never used any Fluid or seen any embalming done, but
had got posted from your Manual by reading it over. The doctors said
that it would be of no use to try to keep the body without ice, as it
would be “as black as your hat” in 24 hours, in such weather; but I told
them it could be kept all right if I could have my way, and after a
while the friends consented to it, but procured some ice so as to have
it ready. I followed out your instructions exactly, using about a gallon
of the Preservative, and at the time of the funeral the body looked as
natural as life.

                                                      M. H. BAILEY & CO.

And again, Dec. 17, 1883:

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please find enclosed draft to balance account. When we have used the
Preservative all up, we will want some more of it, as we would not want
to be without it now.

                                                      M. H. BAILEY & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Wakeman, Ohio, Feb. 16, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have about half of the last shipment of the Preservative, but you can
ship us another. We have never had it fail us and have given it some
severe tests. We embalmed two bodies last summer in the hottest weather,
that went into Nebraska and Colorado, and they were received in splendid
shape, after being transported for days in hot cars.

                                                         PEASE & BRIGHT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Birmingham, Ohio, Aug. 18, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am very much pleased with your Excelsior Preservative. When I need any
more will bear you in mind.

                                                           S. E. BAUDER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Bloomsburg, Penn., Feb. 13, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have used your Preservative since May, 1880, and it gives us entire
satisfaction, being far better than anything else that we have ever
tried.

                                                      W. J. CORELL & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Republic, Ohio, Dec. 18, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have bought out the concern of Pancoast & Co., and they had a good
deal of Fluid from other parties, but I don’t like it near as well as I
do your Preservative. Just as soon as I am wanting any more will order
from you. I have used nothing that has given such satisfaction as that
manufactured by you.

                                                          R. CHAMBERLIN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Staunton, Ills., July 9, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I find the Preservative to give the best satisfaction of anything of the
kind in the market.

                                                             H. HACKMAN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                      Clarksville, Tenn., Dec. 29, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The package of Preservative I had is just empty. Is the price the same
as before, and how shall I return the carboy? I write you because I was
pleased with the Preservative.

                                                          JNO. F. COUTS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Carlisle, Ky., Sept. 15, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative is unquestionably the best embalming preparation we
have ever used.

                                                      HOWARD & DINSMORE.

And again, Aug. 19, 1887:

CRANE & ALLEN:

The Preservative has always been entirely satisfactory.

                                               HOWARD, DINSMORE & ADAIR.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Germantown, Ohio, Aug. 10, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative answers every purpose, and I have done some very fine
work with it.

                                                           H. HILDABOLT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Beloit, Wis., March 1, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

A “Practical Embalmer and Demonstrator” called on me a while ago and
kindly informed me that his “Fluid” was the only kind worthy of the
name. I heard him through and then gave him some of my personal
experience, which was altogether different. I tell you when they come
around and malign our friends, we want to look out for them, and the
Excelsior Preservative has helped us through too many tough places to be
counted out now. When we want some more you may be assured you will hear
from us, as there is nothing to equal the Preservative.

                                                          J. E. HOUSTON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Jordan, N. Y., June 18, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The Excelsior Preservative is the best I ever used, having been in the
Undertaking business 16 years and tried almost all kinds of “Fluids”
made; and must say that the Preservative takes the cakes—yes, the “whole
baking.”

                                                           M. D. HOWARD.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Santa Fe, N. M., Sept. 6, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have just shipped to New York the body of J. A. Tyler (son of
President Tyler). I embalmed him with your Excelsior Preservative, using
two gallons of it. The body arrived in New York in first-class
condition, and everything was satisfactory.

                                                          J. W. OLINGER.

And again, Aug. 18, 1884:

CRANE & ALLEN:

I like your Preservative and think it the best. Have had good success
with it, and it is truly “Excelsior.”

                                                          J. W. OLINGER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Burr Oak, Mich., Nov. 24, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am well pleased with the Preservative. I took up a body the other day
that I embalmed the middle of last August, and it had not changed in
appearance at all, which is a sufficient guarantee to me of the
excellence of your Preservative.

                                                          G. W. BULLOCK.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Rochelle, Ills., April 16, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative has done my work all right, and I have from one to 500
pressing the claims of the different “Fluids” during the year, but it is
a safe rule to “let well enough alone,” so I shall continue to use yours
only.

                                                           D. A. BAXTER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Lebanon, Ky., May 21, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have a supply of “Fluid” on hand at present, but we confess that it
is not as good as yours. In fact, from our experience, we think your
Preservative is the best in the market.

                                                     ENGLAND, BARR & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Gardner, Ills., Oct. 7, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please find P. O. order to balance account. I am well pleased with your
Preservative. I kept a body three days and then sent it to Rochester, N.
Y., and the friends that saw it there said that it looked fresh and
life-like; and I also kept a body with it and sent it to Fowler, Ind.,
the fourth day after death, and the friends there said they did not
believe her dead, as she looked so life-like and natural. I can
recommend it as a Preservative and deodorizer.

                                                              H. ELDRED.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                               Ada, Ohio, Nov. 24, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We highly appreciate the worth and merit of your Preservative. It has
done wonders for us.

                                                          DAVIS & HOVER.

And again, Nov. 22, 1885:

CRANE & ALLEN:

As we gain more experience with your Preservative, we find it more and
more satisfactory.

                                                          DAVIS & HOVER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Mt. Vernon, Ind., April 9, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have some of your Preservative yet, and also some that we bought of
another party, but do not like it as well as yours. When we get out
again we will order of you.

                                                     J. F. SCHIELA & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                    Chenango Forks, N. Y., June 1, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please find check for your bill. The Preservative has proved to be what
it was recommended. I have had a number of bad cases, and have treated
them successfully with your Preservative.

                                                           J. D. SEEBER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                      Michaelsville, Md., Oct. 20, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative has given us entire satisfaction, and we are very much
pleased with it.

                                                       G. OSBORN & SONS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Barry, Ills., Aug. 18, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Send me a package of the Preservative by express. I have found it all
right, and it has never went back on me yet.

                                                             JAS. SMITH.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Cassopolis, Mich., July 29, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I want to write you about our first case of embalming. It was the wife
of a prominent citizen, and it was desired to keep the body until the
arrival of friends from Virginia. She died of a heart difficulty, and at
the time of her death was so black her own relatives would not have
known her. We went to work with the Preservative and followed the
instructions of your Manual, and the appearance of the body improved
every day, and at the end of five days many people said it was the
handsomest corpse that they had ever seen. We were a little anxious
ourselves about the results, it being our first case, but we are
receiving congratulations from everybody. We now see that there should
be no difficulty in any person taking your Manual of Instructions and
the Preservative and doing a good job of embalming just as well the
first time as any.

                                                           C. C. NELSON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Pulaski, Tenn., Feb. 18, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We are well pleased with your Preservative; in fact, we prefer it to all
other embalming preparations.

                                                       J. T. OAKES & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                               Sidney, O., June 1, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

What will you charge us for a full set of instruments? We could get a
set free by buying ten gallons of Fluid, but we don’t think there is
anything equal to your Preservative, and the instruments might be too
dear even if free, if we had to buy ten gallons of Fluid of some one
else to get them.

                                                      SALM, MORTON & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Plymouth, Mass., July 25, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Enclosed find check for $102.00, the amount due you for Preservative. We
are using it fast now, and like it very much.

                                                     E. C. RAYMOND & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Pontiac, Ills., July 22, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Send me one carboy of the Preservative. It has given me good
satisfaction and I shall use no other, although have had inducements
from various other parties to try some of their Fluids. Yours suits me
very well, and I have no desire to change. Ship as soon as you receive
this.

                                                           GEO. W. RICE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                              Macon, Mo., June 17, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have plenty of the Preservative on hand for the present. Will handle
no other, as it does the work O. K. You can look for my order when in
need of any Fluid.

                                                        GEO. P. REICHEL.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Oconomowoc, Wis., March 4, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have used several other kinds of Fluids, and I think your Preservative
the best in use. It has in all cases given the best satisfaction.

                                                             H. F. LYKE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Nunda, N. Y., June 3, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

When in want of any more “Fluid” you will hear from me, as your
Preservative has proven very satisfactory.

                                                             R. S. CREE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Casey, Ills., April 28, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative has always given perfect satisfaction, and I want
nothing better. When I need another supply will surely order.

                                                        M. G. COCHONOUR.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Delphos, Ohio, April 28, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Enclosed find check for last bill, and send another package of the
Preservative. I used the last I had last Sunday on a very large body,
over 300 lbs. weight—a very bad dropsical case. The body was
considerably turned when I was called, as the death occurred the day
before, but it kept nicely. The Preservative never went back on me in a
single case.

                                                            J. S. COWAN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Zionsville, Ind., July 21, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

You will please send me another package of the Excelsior Preservative by
express, as I want it soon. I believe it is the best that I ever used. I
had been using another kind, but I like yours much better and intend to
use it as long as I can get it.

                                                          E. S. CROPPER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Office of the Morgue,         }
                                         St. Louis, Mo., June 7, 1883. }

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have used your Preservative both as a disinfectant and as a
deodorizer, and in every instance it has given satisfactory results,
while for restoring the faces of bodies to natural color it is not
equalled by any Fluid known to me. In short, it is the very best of the
many Fluids which I have tried.

                                                  JOHN F. RYAN,
                                                      _Supt. of Morgue_.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Chester, Penn., May 25, 1882.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I would not be without your Preservative for anything. I have now a body
that was drowned on May 15th, and it was in the water for full nine
days. I have got it in good shape with the Preservative, and it is
keeping good.

                                                       THOS. J. CRUMBIE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Oregon, Ills., Dec. 1, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please find draft enclosed, which credit me on account. Your
Preservative is as good as I want.

                                                           A. SALISBURY.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Dunkirk, O., July 31, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I preserved a body with your Preservative, and kept it from June 22d to
July 12th in good condition.

                                                           J. STONEHILL.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                      Albert Lea, Minn., April 16, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am pleased with your Preservative, and will agree with you that it
will not pay to save a few dollars and get a poor article.

                                                             P. CLAUSEN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Petersburg, Ills., Jan. 25, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We like your Preservative very well; have had good success with it, and
never a single failure. We have been trying several kinds, so that we
know for ourselves which is the best. We have a quantity of other kinds
on hand now, but shall not use any but yours.

                                                        D. M. BONE & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Weyauwega, Wis., April 14, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have had good success with your Preservative. Last September I
embalmed a large body and had to wait until relatives came from the
west, so I kept the body a week and then received a dispatch that they
could not get here as soon as expected, so the body was kept two days
more and was in perfect condition at the time of the funeral.

                                                              WM. BAUER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Creston, Iowa, Dec. 13, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative can turn a black man white.

                                                            BURKET BROS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Massillon, O., Nov. 7, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have been buying some other kinds and have been using them, but will
not buy any more of them, as I have found none as reliable as your
Preservative.

                                                            J. H. OGDEN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Blair, Neb., Aug. 15, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I like your Preservative very well; in fact, it is the best of any that
I have used.

                                                           E. C. PIERCE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Bushnell, Ills., Dec. 11, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

You need not be afraid that we shall not buy of you, for we have used
your Preservative a great many years and have never had a failure with
it yet. We would be glad to recommend it to any Undertaker, if you want
to refer anyone to us.

                                                          OBLANDER BROS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Fox Lake, Wis., Aug. 21, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have given your Excelsior Preservative a good trial and am fully
satisfied with it. I would suggest that you correspond with Colman &
Morris, of Chippawa Falls, as one of the firm was here and saw me use
the Preservative in very warm weather.

                                                          JNO. PHLIPSON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Waynesburg, Ohio, April 12, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am well pleased with the Preservative, and have built up quite a
reputation as an Embalmer with it, as I never have had a failure when
using it, and I have been using it now a good many years. I want nothing
better.

                                                           B. WINGERTER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Storm Lake, Iowa, Sept. 6, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I must say that I do like your Preservative better than any I ever used
before, and as long as I can get an article as good as that is, don’t
want any better.

                                                          GEORGE WITTER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                    Windsor Locks, Conn., Oct. 11, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I find the Preservative all right, and it does not go back on me when I
use it; it is sure every time.

                                                          C. W. WATROUS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Rushville, Ind., March 6, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am out of the business now, but I will recommend your Preservative
above anything I ever used; and I have been the means of having orders
sent in to you by others, as I wanted my friends in the business to have
something they could rely upon.

                                                          WM. L. WILSON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Boston, Mass., Aug. 10, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The instruments are received, and would say that a set of more neatness
and compactness I have not seen, and I consider them a perfect set. The
needle and sprayer are needed improvements, and the extra long rubber
hose with which to carry off escaping gas from a dead body through a
window, so that none can make its escape into the room, is just the
thing.

                                                           B. E. MURRAY.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Edgerton, O., July 10, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have had always good results from the use of the Preservative, one
particularly, lately, of a lady who died with cancer in the face, but I
made it presentable and without any odor by the use of the Preservative.

                                                           J. H. MILLER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Vinton, Iowa, May 17, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have not found anything we like as well as your Preservative. We have
just had a case where the body was just as sweet six days after death as
at first, indeed, much sweeter, as froth was issuing from mouth when we
took it under our care and commenced using your Preservative on it. The
man died almost instantly in full blood and full health, and was a hard
case to keep.

                                                            J. F. YOUNG.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Wilmington, Del., June 30, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The Preservative has proved very satisfactory. Have used it in over 150
cases, and not a single failure. We are much pleased with it. Several of
the other Undertakers of our city are very anxious to find out what we
are using.

                                                        MITCHELL & BECK.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Watertown, N. Y., May 12, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I only use your Preservative in cases where I need first-class results,
for I make a Fluid for common use that costs less money; but your
Preservative has done splendid work for me and is perfection.

                                                           DANIEL FRINK.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                Mishawaka, June 5, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I send the empties back to-day; please fill and return one of them with
the Preservative. I also send a jug that has some of another kind. I
have no use for it and don’t wish any more of it if it is cheaper.
Therefore you can make use of it if you can. I am satisfied now that
yours is the best.

                                                            JOHN FEITEN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                      Marlborough, Mass., Jan. 28, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I will say about your Preservative, that it is the best thing I ever
used in my life, and I have used almost everything of the kind in the
market, but find yours the best of any.

                                                              H. W. FAY.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Athens, Penn., Aug. 19, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We shall want some more of the Preservative soon. We think that there is
nothing equal to it. You may send ten gallons.

                                                      E. N. FROST & SON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Fremont, Neb., July 7, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We shall order more of your Preservative as soon as we have used up what
we have of it, as it gives perfect satisfaction.

                                                       VAUGHAN & HINMAN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Waynesville, O., May 4, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We shall need some more of the Preservative and will order when out. We
have had very good luck with it and it is the best of anything of the
kind.

                                                     GEO. M. ZELL & SON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Oxford, Mich., Dec. 26, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Enclosed is money order to balance account. Your Preservative has
secured to us great favor with the people.

                                                          WHITCOMB BROS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Beaver Dam, Wis., Jan. 26, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have tried a number of kinds and I find your embalming preparation to
be the best of all, and as soon as I am in want shall order some from
you.

                                                            C. B. BEEBE.

And again, Aug. 25, 1883:

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am highly pleased with your Preservative. A lady died here on Sunday
morning, and they were anxious to send her to Providence, R. I., and I
embalmed her with the Preservative and kept her here until the next
Wednesday, put her into casket and sent her by express. They had the
funeral there the next Sunday, seven days after, in those extremely hot
days, and they write me she looked just the same as when she left, as
natural as in life, and no odor from the body whatever.

                                                            C. B. BEEBE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Philadelphia, March 6, 1883.
                                    [TELEGRAM.]

  CRANE & ALLEN:

Send at once fourteen gallons Preservative.

                                                  R. R. BRINGHURST & CO.

Also letter, June 20, 1885:

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please find herewith check for $168.75, amount in full to date. Please
send another shipment of the Preservative.

                                                  R. R. BRINGHURST & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Greensburg, Penn., May 29, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please to send me, as soon as you can, five gallons of the Preservative.
I consider it the best Fluid made, as I have used it on some very
difficult cases and it proved a success in every particular, when other
kinds have failed. Hoping that you may still keep up the reputation for
making the best Embalming Fluid in the world, I remain,

                                                         Resp’y,
                                                             G. B. CONN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Maysville, Ky., March 28, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Send quick a carboy of the Preservative, same as last. It is the best of
all we have experimented with, which has been quite a number of kinds.

                                                          MYALL & RILEY.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Altoona, Pa., May 15, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We received the Preservative in due time and are happy to say it has
given satisfaction so far. The longest we kept a corpse with it was four
days, and those who saw the body the day of the funeral said it looked
better than while alive. Had no occasion so far to keep any bodies
longer than that.

                                                          NOEL & ARTHUR.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Lincoln, Neb., Nov. 19, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I think more of your Preservative the more I use it. Have not used a bit
of ice this season, and have kept bodies for a week in the hot season
without the least inconvenience.

                                                            H. W. HARDY.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Perry, Iowa, Jan. 11, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

It will not be long before I will need some more of the Preservative. I
would not use any other preparation as long as I can get yours.

                                                           L. D. GAMBLE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Harrodsburg, Ky., March 3, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

You will please send another carboy of your Preservative at once. I
embalmed Gov. McGoffin last Saturday, and he is still in a perfect
state. The Preservative is always good.

                                                            J. H. STAGG.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Lancaster, O., June 25, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

When you sent me the Preservative I had six gallons of another kind, but
when I am out again I shall order more of you, as it is the best I ever
used.

                                                             C. STROPEL.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Hudson, N. Y., Feb. 13, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I had some other kinds of Fluid when I got your Preservative, and I have
waited until I could give it a good trial before writing to you about
it. Well, I had some bad cases a short time ago, and after using the
Preservative on them I am satisfied it is all right in every respect,
and I want some more of it.

                                                             A. WAGONER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Hagerstown, Md., July 30, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative acts like a charm, and I am also well pleased with the
instruments.

                                                         J. K. SPIELMAN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Galena, Ills., July 31, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We are using the Preservative you sent last, and you had better send
some more at once. We like your Preservative in preference to all
others.

                                               SCHERER, ARMBRUSTER & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                      Murfreesboro, Tenn., Oct. 2, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative has given most excellent satisfaction in every case
where I have used it, and I will send an order for another supply soon.

                                                          THOS. H. WOOD.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Fairfield, Ills., Jan. 29, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have been using your Preservative with perfect satisfaction. Will
call on you for more when we are out.

                                                     WICKLIN & McMACKIN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Wadsworth, Ohio, Sept. 22, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please send me another carboy of your Excelsior Preservative, and send
as soon as possible. It is a first-class article, and I don’t want to be
without it.

                                                          J. H. WUCHTER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Higginsville, Mo., June 25, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative is the best we have ever seen, and it has given
perfect satisfaction in every case.

                                                    THORNTON & HARGRAVE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Spirit Lake, Iowa, March 3, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I used your Preservative on a subject that had turned black in the face
and brought it out as natural as life, to the astonishment of all who
saw the case.

                                                          D. R. BARMORE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Clinton, Mich., Feb. 10, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We received the package of the Preservative and would say that you need
not be afraid of our using any other kind, as we tried some of another
kind as we could buy it cheaper, and it did not do its work as well as
yours; so have concluded to stick to what we know by experience is
all right.

                                                     BAINBRIDGE & HAUSE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Waterloo, Ind., Dec. 26, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please send me by first express a package of the Preservative. I am
telling people that with your Preservative I can keep their dead until
the friends can come from Germany. I don’t want to be without it at any
time of the year.

                                                           J. S. BOWERS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Chariton, Iowa, Oct. 27, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Send us another invoice and it shall receive our prompt attention. Our
success with the Preservative has been first-class, and in no instance
have we made a failure in its use.

                                                         BRADRICK & SON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                  Lowell, Aug. 17, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have been using the Preservative and find it “fills the bill” every
time. We like it the best of anything of the kind we have ever used.

                                                          TAYLOR & KOPF.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Hanover, Penn., Dec. 53, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I find your Excelsior Preservative to be grand for the purpose and would
be glad to recommend it to anyone in the trade as being the best in the
world. I have tried other Fluids, but they cannot compete with yours.

                                                         GEO. W. THOMAS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Whitewater, Wis., Dec. 5, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have used none other but your Preservative but once, and we had all
we wanted of it. Other parties are sending samples of Fluid, but we set
them one side, as yours suits us.

                                                       THIELE & GOODHUE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Waverly, Ohio, Feb. 27, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I would have no other Fluid than yours as long as I can get it, for I
have had splendid success with it.

                                                              A. GEHRES.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                      North Vernon, Ind., July 16, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Refill and return the carboy immediately, as I unexpectedly found myself
out. Your Preservative has given entire satisfaction and I am well
pleased with it.

                                                           H. C. VAUGHT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Sandwich, Ills., July 10, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative has given grand satisfaction wherever I have used it.
I gave it a good test last week, when we had those hottest days, and the
results could not have been better.

                                                           C. P. WALTER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Gridley, Ill., March 5, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I did not try your Preservative until last week, when I had a very bad
case. The case was death from inflammation of the bowels. Was not called
until 28 hours after he died; found the body full of gas, escaping from
the mouth and nose. After two hours work with the Preservative I had him
in good condition and kept him until the third day afterwards, and he
looked as natural as life. I am satisfied that your Preservative will do
all you claim for it.

                                                             J. GILMORE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Waverly, Iowa, March 14, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We are never without a package of your Preservative, which we consider
really the only reliable Fluid in the market.

                                                          WOODRING BROS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Fairfield, Iowa, March 15, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We think your Preservative the best of anything of the kind we have ever
used, and it gives the best of satisfaction.

                                                          GIBSON & BECK.

And again, on April 15, 1884:

CRANE & ALLEN:

As far as your Preservative is concerned, we have used it six or eight
years and have found no equal to it, and shall continue to use it.

                                                          GIBSON & BECK.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                     Grand Rapids, Wis., Sept. 20, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I was at the Wisconsin State Convention of Undertakers, and I find that
your Preservative is used by a majority of the Undertakers of the State.
I find it myself to be the best of all.

                                                 M. C. WARREN, SON & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Lebanon, Penn., Aug. 31, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I must say that your Preservative has done the work it was represented
to do and makes the subjects look as natural as life, and I would vouch
for Crane & Allen’s Fluid above any other in market.

                                                           D. A. FRANTZ.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Peotone, Ills., July 26, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I want to tell you what I have done with your Preservative. I kept a
body this week four days, extremely hot—100 deg. in the shade most of
the time—and when I closed the casket, the body, which was a case of
blood poisoning, looked better than when she died. Another case, of a
very fleshy man: I was called some time after death and found body
bloated and smelling very bad, also turning dark. I treated it with your
Preservative, and at the funeral he looked as white as in life—no smell,
and bloating all gone down. I am better pleased with the Preservative
than I ever expected to be.

                                                      HENRY FEDDE & SON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Arcade, N. Y., July 14, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We would cheerfully recommend your Preservative to Undertakers. By “we”
I mean Mr. Ladd and myself, as he has been the one to use it, and with
perfect success.

                                                            W. W. DAVIS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                              Washington, Jan. 12, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We will order again soon. We have been testing your Preservative by the
side of other Fluids; that is, using yours first on a case, and another
Fluid on the next, and so on alternately, and we find that your
Preservative is all right. We would rather have it than any Fluid that
we know of.

                                                        ZANEIS & MILLER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                 Ottawa, Sept. 22, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I had a large quantity of Fluid on hand when your Preservative was
received, but I have been using yours lately and am very well pleased
with it and shall order more when out.

                                                           S. ZIMMERMAN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Jamestown, N. Y., Nov. 14, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have been trying some other kinds of Fluids, but do not find any that
give as good satisfaction as yours, and we shall confine ourselves to
its use after this.

                                                   THEO. VANDUSEN & BRO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                      Grand Ledge, Mich., March 9, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We like your Preservative first-rate and shall use it altogether when we
need anything of the kind.

                                                              WEST BROS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                              Monticello, Jan. 20, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

When in need of any Fluid I will gladly send you an order, as I believe
that your Preservative is just the thing. I have been using it now for a
number of years, and cannot find anything as good.

                                                          M. BEIDERWOLF.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Newton, Kansas, April 3, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We bought out Messrs. Schoonover & Sage some time ago, and have been
using your Preservative got of them and we are satisfied it is the best
we ever saw or used. It works charmingly, and has not failed to give
satisfaction in any case. No trouble to keep a body any length of time.
Please send us a carboy of it at once.

                                                        KAUFMAN & HOEFS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Camden, N. J., Feb. 28, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please forward to me immediately another carboy of the Preservative just
like that you sent me before, as I am very well pleased with it.

                                                          F. S. SIMMONS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Belvidere, Ills., Oct. 21, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have had excellent success with your Preservative, and think it the
best there is and am much pleased with it.

                                                          L. C. WILLARD.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                      Beardstown, Ills., April 24, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have tested four different kinds of Fluids within the last year, and I
find upon comparing them all together that your Preservative is the most
reliable. You may send me a package of it.

                                                          W. F. MOHLMAN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Broadhead, Wis., May 29, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We are perfectly satisfied with your Preservative. We have tried several
kinds and find yours is unsurpassed in doing the work complete, and it
justifies the merits attributed to it.

                                                          PAYNE & PAYNE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Scranton, Pa., May 23, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

In regard to the Preservative, I would say that it is a good Embalming
Fluid, and I have had good success with it and can recommend it to be
first-class.

                                                             A. R. RAUB.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Plymouth, O., May 19, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative is a good one and I will use no other as I have never
found anything to equal it.

                                                           JOHN BEELMAN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Fall River, Mass., June 14, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I received the two set of instruments and like them very much,
everything about them being in all respects handy and compact and in
every way first-class. I have had very satisfactory and flattering
results with your Preservative, and have found it to be all you claim
for it.

                                                          E. S. RAYMOND.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Frederick, Md., July 14, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have been using the Preservative, and it has proved successful in
every case.

                                                      A. T. RICE & SONS.

And again, Sept. 26, 1886:

CRANE & ALLEN:

We are well pleased with your Preservative, and will continue to use it.

                                                      A. T. RICE & SONS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Bloomington, Ill., Dec. 10, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative gives us satisfaction and for preparing bodies for
long shipment it is the best of any fluid in the market. We commenced
using it in 1877, and occasionally since then we have tried a number of
other fluids, but our experience is that we can find nothing to equal
the Excelsior Preservative for any embalming purposes, and mean to use
it exclusively hereafter.

                                                          J. L. WOLCOTT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Kalkaska, Mich., Oct. 7, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have used the Preservative with Excellent success and we shall be
pleased to give you an order for more as soon as our stock of it runs
out, as it is entirely satisfactory.

                                                            CLARK BRO’S.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Bainbridge, Ind., June 12, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have been using your Preservative for some time and find it gives
perfect satisfaction in every respect and shall want more of it soon.

                                                            J. S. BLACK.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                      Great Falls, N. H., July 18, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We enclose check for amount to balance. We have been using the
Preservative and are very much pleased with it.

                                                     A. D. FAUNCE & SON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Bay City, Mich., Oct. 1, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I will say this, having tried a number of fluids, I find your
Preservative the best of any in the market. This is only my opinion, but
I believe it all the same.

                                                          H. F. SHANNON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                              Philadelphia, May 1, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please send us a large carboy of your Preservative at once.

                                                      E. S. EARLY & SON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          New York City, April 14, 1884.
                                          [TELEGRAM.]

  CRANE & ALLEN:

Send me a pkge. of the Preservative.

                                                      CHAS. A. BENEDICT,
                                                          60 Carmine St.

And again, Jan. 10, 1885:

CRANE & ALLEN:

Send at once two pkges. Preservative.

                                                      CHAS. A. BENEDICT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         La Porte, Ind., Aug. 3d., 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have had good success with your Preservative as you will see by the
enclosed newspaper clipping:

“The bodies of Mrs. Rose Stern and Frank Malloy when brought to the city
were given in charge of Mr. Weir, undertaker, and by him prepared for
burial. That of Frank Malloy was taken to South Bend, and there kept
until Sunday afternoon. Although held so long and moved so many times,
so perfect was the preservation and so natural the expression that it
was remarked: ‘He is not dead, but sleeping.’ Every one who beheld Mrs.
Stern’s countenance will bear testimony to its perfectly life-like
appearance, and that she lay as if asleep in her casket on the morning
of the funeral. Taking into consideration the extremely hot weather; the
manner of death and the length of time before burial, the perfect state
of preservation the bodies were in was remarkable and a credit to Mr.
Weir, who has both skill and good taste as an undertaker.”

We shall continue to use your Preservative, having had such remarkable
success with it.

                                                             WEIR BRO’S.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Erie, Penn., March 7, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative proved entirely satisfactory, but while using it I was
persuaded to try another kind of which I have a large supply on hand.
When used I will if I buy any, get yours as I think it far superior to
any I have yet used, and I have tried nearly all.

                                                            W. J. QUINN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                              Polo, Ill., Aug. 14, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have just opened a branch undertaking establishment at Milledgeville,
Ill., and I shall need another outfit of instruments and a pkge. of the
Preservative. Although it costs more than some other Fluids, I consider
it as cheap as the cheapest, and I know just what it will do.

                                                              M. SNYDER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Peoria, Ill., Nov. 18, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative is a good one, but I got onto another kind, I think
after using both I would prefer yours for several reasons and am not
going to use the other any more.

                                                         GEO. F. TOBIAS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Hoyleton, Ill., March 30, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I had a bad case a few days ago in which I used your Preservative to my
full satisfaction and hereafter I shall always use it. Send me the price
of your Embalming Instruments.

                                                           WILLIAM ROLF.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Memphis, Tenn., July 6, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have found your Preservative to be all you claimed for it as it has
given perfect satisfaction wherever I have used it. Send another supply,
same as I got before.

                                                          P. M. STANLEY.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         West Newton, Pa., July 6, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Ship another carboy of the Preservative. I would have given the order
before, but had some other fluid I wanted to dispose of first. I like
the preservative best of any I have yet used.

                                                         S. M. SCHROYER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                   Ellicottville, N. Y., Sept. 20, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Enclosed find money order, which please credit me on account, I have
used your Preservative as long ago as in 1878 and it gives the best
satisfaction of anything I ever used.

                                                             Q. E. RUST.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                      Spencerport, N. Y., June 22, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have been using some other fluid lately, but it does not restore the
color as nice as your Preservative and I shall hereafter use yours.

                                                           D. L. WALKER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Van Wert, O., May 26, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I expect to use your Preservative right along as it gives the best
satisfaction. I never had it fail me yet.

                                                             W. L. RANK.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Delphi, Ind., July 6, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please send us by express a carboy of the Preservative, same as last. It
gave us very good satisfaction, and we do not want to change for
anything else if we can help it.

                                                        BRAGUNIER & COX.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Brookfield, Mo., Sept. 19, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Enclosed is draft for last bill, and we will send to you for more of the
Preservative before we are out, as we consider it the best.

                                                     L. S. BOWDEN & SON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Cobleskill, N. Y., Nov. 25, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative has given me perfect satisfaction in every instance,
and I consider it to be No. 1.

                                                           JOSIAH BORST.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Salina, Kansas, Oct. 29, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Insomuch as your Preservative has always filled the bill, we shall
continue using it in preference to any other.

                                             KILIAN & WILLIAMS FURN. CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Nelsonville, Ohio, Aug. 25, 1882.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I can say that your Preservative is the best Embalming Fluid I have ever
tried and will do all that you claim for it, and I will order some more
soon.

                                                           W. C. SIDMAN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Oshkosh, Wis., Aug. 24, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have used your Preservative with very satisfactory results. It does
all you claim for it, and we would take pleasure in recommending it to
any Undertaker.

                                                       B. H. SOPER & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                     Michigan City, Ind., June 28, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We are in receipt of the Preservative, and I will say as the Undertaker
of Michigan City that there is no use for any other Fluid for me. I have
one case that I have kept several days now, through this hot, rainy
weather, full of thunder showers, that is just like wax. Although a
comparatively young man—of only 43 summers—I have been an Undertaker for
20 years, and say without fear or favor to any one that the Excelsior
Preservative is the “stuff that knocks.”

                                                W. H. SMITH,
                                                    Of ROBINSON & SMITH.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Menasha, Wis., June 24, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

When in want of any more Fluid you will surely hear from me. I have not
used any except your Preservative for the last five years, and as long
as it proves as good as it has in the past, I will not chance any other
kind. I have tried it in all kinds of cases and find it all O. K.

                                                         T. D. PHILLIPS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Earlville, Ills., Aug. 30, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We are well pleased with your Preservative.

                                                       BARNARD & RADLEY.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Fowler, Ind., June 3, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The Preservative has given good satisfaction, and when I am in need of
more will order of you.

                                                          T. A. BALDWIN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Pinckney, Mich., Nov. 30, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please find enclosed draft to cancel bill of instruments. The outfit is
far superior to what I expected, and I am well pleased with it.

                                                            L. H. BEEBE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Dayton, Ohio, Jan. 30, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

When we get out of the Preservative we certainly will order, as it has
given us perfect satisfaction.

                                                         BERK, FRY & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                              Utica, Pa., March 3, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We like your Preservative very well, and will order more when what we
have of it is used.

                                                           BAKER & YARD.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                              Canton, Mo., Feb. 6, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative is the best article for embalming purposes that I have
ever seen or heard of, and you may rest assured that when I get out of
it will send you an order for more, as I don’t want to be without it.

                                                          WILLIAM QUEER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                    Highland Park, Ills., Aug. 20, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Excelsior Preservative is all that can be desired, and works A No.
1 in every case. I never had a failure or anything like poor success
with it in all the years I have used it. It is the boss.

                                                         EDWARD MEYNERS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Norwich, Conn., Jan. 14, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The Preservative works very well indeed, so that when we are out we
shall want more of you.

                                                      HENRY ALLEN & SON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Frankfort, Ind., June 15, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Find enclosed draft for $60.00, invoice of April 16th. We appreciate the
good qualities of your Preservative, and it has in every instance given
us entire satisfaction.

                                                        CHARLES L. WIRT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                   Traverse City, Mich., March 29, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative has always given the best of satisfaction, and I would
use no other.

                                                         SAM’L ANDERSON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Cascade, Iowa, Oct. 23, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have given your Preservative a thorough trial, and find it all that
you claim it to be.

                                                         BEATTY & BROWN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Mondovi, Wis., Aug. 12, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have used the Preservative with entire satisfaction, and I consider
that it has been of great value to me.

                                                           J. E. CHENEY.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Larwill, Ind., Jan. 1, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have used your Preservative with the very best of success in every
case and with the best of satisfaction to my customers, and I would
recommend it to anyone in the profession if they want something they can
rely upon.

                                                            W. S. SMITH.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                    Little Falls, N. Y., April 23, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I will say that in our opinion there is no better Embalming Fluid in the
market than the Excelsior Preservative. Were it not for the fact that we
manufacture and sell our own Fluid, we should most assuredly place our
order with you.

                                                       H. A. TOZER & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Oak Harbor, Ohio, Jan. 18, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

As soon as I use up all of the Preservative I have now, I shall
certainly order more, because I cannot get along without it; I _must_
have it.

                                                            HENRY THEIN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Princeton, Ky., April 18, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I like the Preservative very much, and have recommended it to other
parties. I think Currey & Dabney, of Dyersburg, Tenn., sent for some by
my recommendation.

                                                         A. C. THOMPSON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Susquehanna, Pa., Feb. 15, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please send another package of the Preservative at once. I kept the body
of a man who was killed while in perfect health, while the weather was
very warm and foggy. I consider your Preservative an A No. 1 article.

                                                            O. T. SMITH.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Gallatin, Tenn., July 2, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have been using your Preservative and are pleased with it, and shall
place another order with you.

                                                       W. C. BLUE & SON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                      Mt. Pleasant, Iowa, April 6, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Will return carboy to have it refilled with the Preservative, as it is
all that is desired and gives perfect satisfaction.

                                                             H. T. BIRD.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                Anna, O., June 11, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have given your Preservative a good trial lately. I had a case of a
man who died in good health, and I kept the body four days and four
nights, while the weather was very warm and soft, and the body was kept
in good condition by bathing with your Preservative and using saturated
cloths, without injecting the cavities. It was certainly a surprise to
me, and I am satisfied I could keep a body with the Preservative any
length of time by full embalming with it.

                                                        J. L. APPLEGATE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Grand Rapids, Ohio, May 6, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am well pleased with the results from using your Preservative, and I
have found nothing that answers the purpose as well.

                                                        J. HACKENBURGER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Emlenton, Pa., Feb. 10, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We are very well satisfied with your Preservative, and know of no reason
why we should try any other Fluid, as there could not be anything
better.

                                                       GIERING & MARTIN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Waukesha, Wis., Jan. 31, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am very well satisfied with the Preservative, and shall continue to
use it.

                                                           CHAS. GASPAR.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Kenton, O., Sept. 24, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Send me a carboy of your Preservative. I have a number of gallons of
other Fluid, but I prefer yours.

                                                            W. F. DAMON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Waterville, N. Y., May 5, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am acquainted with D. C. Whitten & Co., of Utica, N. Y., and they
recommend your Excelsior Preservative for preserving bodies, very
highly. I have used a number of kinds, and of course I want the best.

                                                             JNO. SMITH.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Bristol, R. I., June 26, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have met with complete success by using your Preservative the past
season, and I like it very much; it proved a success in every case.

                                                        GEO. W. SIMMONS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Sycamore, Ohio, June 2, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have used your Preservative for seven years now, and have had good
success. It is the best that we ever tried.

                                                         J. STAUM & SON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                              Corry, Pa., Sept. 2, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have used your Preservative for years, and always with the very best
results; and I have recommended my friend, Wm. Peacock, of Gowanda, N.
Y., to use it, and he will send you an order.

                                                             E. L. KING.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Red Key, Ind., June 25, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative has given us good satisfaction, and we think it
splendid.

                                                       J. CROWELL & SON.

And again, from Summitville, Ind., Jan., 1888:

CRANE & ALLEN:

Have removed here from Red Key and are in the Undertaking business. We
used your Preservative formerly and liked it very much. What are your
terms now? We want some of it.

                                                        J. CROWELL & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             New York City, May 3, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Enclosed check for amount of bill. We find the Preservative to be very
good indeed.

                                                        CLAWSON & HAWKS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Hillsdale, Mich., Nov. 5, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The Preservative still gives the best of satisfaction. We have used it
constantly a number of years—our first purchase of it from you was in
July, 1877—and we never had a failure with it yet.

                                                         DONAGHY & HOWE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                              Warren, Pa., Jan. 8, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have use your Preservative a long time, and always found it to give
perfect satisfaction.

                                       P. GREENLUND,
                                           _Formerly of_ GREENLUND BROS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Hampton, Iowa, Dec. 4, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative has given good satisfaction, and I shall want more of
it in the near future.

                                                             A. M. GRAY.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Peoria, Ills., Dec. 17, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I like your Preservative very much, and must have some more of it soon.

                                                             J. J. HUNT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Bourbon, Ind., July 28, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Allow me to say that the Excelsior Preservative is the best Embalming
Fluid I ever used. I have got a corpse on hand now, and have had it
since the 20th, and it is keeping splendidly with your Preservative.

                                                       WENDALL H. SUTCH.

And again, from Los Angeles, Cal., Sept. 28, 1885:

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have sold out to E. Mendenhall, and there was in stock a package of
the old elegant juice (the Preservative), which I recommended to Mr. M.
as being the best thing he could use, and I have no doubt you will have
his order for more of it.

                                                       WENDALL H. SUTCH.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Union, N. Y., April 21, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have been using the Preservative for some time, and am very well
pleased with it. I shall send for another supply soon.

                                                          K. W. SPENCER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Lanark, Ills., May 17, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Enclosed is draft for last bill. We are offered “Fluids” for a song in
comparison to price of yours, but yours has not left us disappointed
when relied on for embalming, and we have had a number of bad cases
which it has kept all right, and longer if it had been necessary. We
shall continue with your Preservative.

                                                          WM. STRICKLER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Pella, Iowa, March 26, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The Preservative is all right, and I saved some hard cases with it last
summer. I like it and will use no other as long as I can get it of you.
It does away with the ice-box entirely.

                                                         WILLIAM VERROS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Trenton, N. J., Feb. 26, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please ship ten gallons of your Preservative by express at once. I go
out a considerable to embalm for other Undertakers, but use a
preparation for some of the work that I make myself, on account of the
cost, but must have your Preservative for certain purposes.

                                                       JAS. G. VANCLEVE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                  Mendon, Feb. 20, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have had splendid success with your Preservative, and it is the thing
to be depended upon.

                                                       G. B. VORE & BRO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Towanda, Pa., Jan. 16, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have been using your Preservative, and so far we are fully satisfied
and will send another order in due time.

                                                         J. P. VANFLEET.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Concord, N. H., Dec. 19, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The Preservative is very good, and I have had good results from its use,
and I can recommend it to anyone as first-class and always reliable.

                                                           A. C. FISHER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Titusville, Pa., Jan. 13, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have used about all of the different kinds of Fluid there is made, and
I give the preference to your Preservative.

                                                           WM. DAVIDSON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Oshkosh, Wis., Oct. 11, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I shall use none but your Preservative, as it has never failed me yet,
and I have used it a good many years, the first I got of you being in
1877.

                                                         WILLIAM SPIKES.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Argos, Ind., Oct. 21, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have some of the Preservative yet, but when I get out of it I will
surely order more, for I would not know how to get along without it.

                                                           A. T. SLATER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Richmond, Mo., April 5, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Send us some more of your Preservative, and oblige. We think it the best
there is. Have been trying another kind but do not like it as well, and
we will stick to yours hereafter, as we are satisfied now that it is the
best of any.

                                                      J. S. SHOOP & SON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Chambersburg, Pa., April 4, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Enclosed you will find check for amount of bill of Jan. 14th. I like the
Preservative very much.

                                                            E. M. SMITH.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                      New Britain, Conn., Jan. 11, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We consider your Preservative to have no superior in market, at least
any that we have seen. We have some poor stuff to get rid of and will
then order.

                                                      W. J. DUNLAY & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                     Franklin Grove, Ills., May 1, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I had some of another kind when your Preservative came, but yours is the
one I will use hereafter, as I consider it the best.

                                                           WM. CRAWFORD.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Greensburg, Kans., May 16, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I had a good job of embalming to do May 1st, and kept the body until
to-day by using your Preservative, and with first-rate success (16
days).

                                                         F. E. DRESCHER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                      Canandaigua, N. Y., Dec. 18, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative is first-rate, and does its work well.

                                                          J. B. FRANCIS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Marion, Ohio, May 21, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The Preservative has always given me good satisfaction.

                                                           WILLIAM FIES.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       West Milton, Ohio, July 29, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am still using your Preservative with success, and I expect to
continue as long as it does the business as well as it has in the past.

                                                         F. M. TOWNSLEY.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                               Akron, O., Aug. 25, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I sold out my business in Brockport, N. Y., to A. D. Dailey and
recommended him to use your Preservative as being the best, and he was
to send you an order. I am in the same business here and using some
Fluid that was here when I bought the business, but not as good. Your
Preservative gave me very good satisfaction in York State, and I will
order some of you soon.

                                                            G. S. THORN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Monroe, Wis., June 25, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I cannot be without your Preservative, for it is reliable every time;
and I just sent some off to-day 30 miles away to use as a face
application, the parties having heard of my having a wonderful article
for that purpose. I have kept bodies with the Preservative a long time
in the hottest weather, and they would be in just as perfect state as
could be.

                                                             F. SHRINER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Noblesville, Ind., June 21, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The Preservative came to hand all right, and we have been using it, and
like it very much indeed.

                                                  S. D. COTTINGHAM & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Ovid, Mich., Sept. 18, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have had splendid success with your Preservative.

                                                         C. W. DANFORTH.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Leipsic, Ohio, Nov. 26, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am very much pleased with the Preservative, and believe it to be the
best thing of the kind in the market.

                                                             S. WATTERS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Clinton, Wis., July 4, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We are nearly out of Preservative, and while many are pressing their
claim to superiority of other Fluids we shall still give yours the
preference, and you may send us a package of it, as we like it the best
of all we have tried; especially for cleansing a tainted and offensive
room we have never found anything to equal your Preservative. A lady
remarked after using it about the house for a few minutes, “It has done
wonders.”

                                                       M. P. TREAT & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                   Danielsonville, Conn., Jan. 14, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have been using the Preservative, and in all cases I have been well
satisfied with the result.

                                                              E. DEXTER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Newark, N. J., Jan. 16, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I like your Preservative very much, and am satisfied with it.

                                                          C. W. COMPTON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                     Charles City, Iowa, April 21, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have been very successful in using your Preservative, and think it
most excellent.

                                                   STEVENS, HERING & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                York, Pa., Feb. 1, 1888.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We are well satisfied with the results in using your Preservative. Have
used our ice boxes but very little since using the Preservative, and
only in cases when insisted upon. Had a body which was embalmed with the
Preservative, disinterred after being buried eight months, and found it
in excellent condition and very satisfactory.

                                                           C. A. STRACK.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                              Muir, Mich., Oct. 4, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have been offered “Fluid” for less than you charge me for the
Preservative, but I have not bought any, as I know your Preservative is
reliable and I don’t want to change.

                                                           GEO. N. SHAW.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Bath, N. Y., July 16, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Of all the different embalming preparations we have used, we like your
Preservative the best.

                                                      JNO. STOCUM & SON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                    Weeping Water, Neb., March 25, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We like your Preservative, and expect to always continue to use it, as
we believe there is no preparation as good as it is.

                                                      CHASE & CHURCHILL.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Westfield, Ind., April 8, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have been using the Preservative for years constantly, with the best
possible results.

                                                                T. WEED.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Ashland, Ky., June 22, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am perfectly satisfied with your Preservative and would have no other
Fluid, and you will hear from me with an order in due time.

                                                            S. CASEBOLT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Succasunna, N. J., Nov. 25, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We like the Preservative very much, and use it wherever we can and when
the prejudices of the people in regard to embalming will admit.

                                                        JARDINE & HANCE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Nokomis, Ills., Dec. 21, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Send me another carboy of the Preservative. It is first-class in every
respect.

                                                              GEO. CULP.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                 Carthage, Aug. 5, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I embalmed a body with your Preservative by filling the cavities and not
the arteries, and kept it nine days in perfect condition, and that case
has brought me a good deal of business.

                                                          W. S. JOHNSON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Berlin, Wis., June 9, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We are very well pleased with the qualities of your Preservative, and
shall use no other.

                                                         HOEFT & TUCKER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                      Mt. Pleasant, Pa., April 18, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I think that your Preservative is the best of anything of the kind in
market. I have tried them all, nearly, and yours is the best, not only
for preserving the body but for restoring and retaining the color also.

                                                        S. P. ZIMMERMAN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Dover, N. J., Sept. 21, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative is a good article, and gives good satisfaction.

                                                         J. L. VAN LIEW.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                 Detroit, Sept. 5, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have always found your Preservative to do good work and do it well.

                                                     LATIMER & HAMILTON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Necedah, Wis., Nov. 11, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have used your Preservative in a great many cases and find it to do
good work and give good satisfaction.

                                                            H. F. YOUNG.

And again, Ashland, Aug. 30, 1887:

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have removed, as you see, to this town, and with my son, W. H. Young.
I have had the “—— Fluid” to use here and find I cannot do the work and
have the desired effect with it that I could with your Preservative, and
have concluded to advise my son to use the Preservative, as I have more
confidence in it than any other Fluid, as I know its virtues.

                                                            H. F. YOUNG.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                              Kent, Ohio, Jan. 13, 1882.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative is all right as to its qualities for keeping the dead,
and after having prepared a body with it we never feel at all uneasy as
to the probabilities of its keeping nicely.

                                                         HERRIFF & REED.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                      Rock Island, Ill., March 26, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I like your Preservative better than anything I have ever used, because
of its good qualities and its deodorizing properties.

                                                             C. B. KNOX.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Philadelphia, July 26, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The cabinet of instruments is received, and we would say that it is the
most complete and elegant outfit for Embalmers’ use that we have yet
seen.

                                                     H. C. SHURTLEFF,
                                                         3722 Market St.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            New York City, May 24, 1882.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am a great deal better satisfied when using your Preservative than
formerly, when having to depend upon ice; and I have preserved and
buried about 200 bodies since I received the first quantity of your
Preservative. About the 1st of last February I embalmed with it one of
our prominent men and the remains laid in the receiving tomb at Woodlawn
Cemetery until last Saturday afternoon, when I opened the casket and
found him in as good condition as when first put in, and he was seen by
about 20 persons, including some of the cemetery officials, who can
vouch for the facts as I have stated them. I also embalmed a body with
the Preservative and shipped it to Troy, N. Y., which was buried three
weeks after, in a perfect state of preservation. The casket was opened
then by the Undertaker, and the remains were kissed by the widow. This I
have from her own statement.

                                              JOHN W. LYON,
                                                  74 and 76 E. 125th St.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Pendleton, Ind., Oct. 8, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have had splendid success with your Preservative and as soon as I can
use any more will order.

                                                         C. B. KEESLING.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Oswego, N. Y., May 4, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I use your Excelsior Preservative in preference to anything else of the
kind, and believe it to be first-class.

                                                           JOHN F. DAIN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Racine, Wis., Oct. 24, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Enclosed find draft in full of account. Your Preservative has given us
good satisfaction.

                                                  S. G. AUGUSTINE & SON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                     Rushsylvania, Ohio, Sept. 10, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The Preservative gives good satisfaction in the most difficult cases.

                                                            WRIGHT BROS.

And again, Aug. 7, 1886:

CRANE & ALLEN:

We are using the Preservative quite freely and with great success, as we
have had some bad cases of late, from deaths by dropsy, heart disease,
and cancer of the bowels, in all of which we have been complimented for
the manner we have handled the cases, and Crane & Allen’s Preservative
was our reliance in all.

                                                            WRIGHT BROS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                     New Carlisle, Ind., March 13, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have this much to say in regard to your Preservative, that I do not
expect to use any other, as I have been successful in the use of it.

                                                        S. L. ARGABRITE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                 Saratoga Springs, N. Y., July 20, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have used your Preservative altogether the past year (except a short
time when we got out of it and that shipment of it was delayed on the
way), and we are much pleased with it. We have kept bodies with it for
10 or 12 days and sent them to distant places for interment, and in the
most perfect condition.

                                                            HOLMES & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       North Bend, Neb., March 11, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Part of the Preservative was burned up at the time my store was burned,
so I shall have to have some more, and yours suits me so well you can
send me another supply, as I am satisfied I cannot do better.

                                                            A. CRAWFORD.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Tiffin, Ohio, April 21, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am having the very best success with your Preservative, and do not
have to take out my ice box any more.

                                                             C. W. HORN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Peru, Ills., Nov. 23, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative does all you claim for it, and we are perfectly
satisfied with it.

                                                          HAAS & WASSOM.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Parker City, Pa., Feb. 23, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am well pleased with the Preservative, and will order soon.

                                                            S. J. ERVIN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Fort Dodge, Iowa, April 8, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

As soon as we are out of the Preservative, we shall want some more, as
we consider it the best there is.

                                                           EIKER & KING.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                    Morrisonville, Ill., March 21, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The Preservative is perfect, and I have been very successful with it. I
have kept bodies ten days with it, with only partial embalming.

                                                            W. H. DRAKE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Geneseo, Ills., Oct. 13, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am well pleased with your Preservative, and shall order more in due
time.

                                                        D. F. ZIMMERMAN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Castile, N. Y., May 31, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am well pleased with the results in using your Preservative, which I
have been using since 1882. Have just given it a good test in shipping a
body embalmed with it to California, which reached there in a perfect
state of preservation, after being on the railroad one week.

                                                      J. H. VAN ARSDALE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Milan, Tenn., April 30, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I take pleasure in saying in regard to your Excelsior Preservative that
it will do all you say it will. The longer I keep a corpse with it, the
more life-like it looks.

                                                          J. W. YOUNGER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Marion, Ind., April 14, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have sold our business, which accounts for our not ordering your
Preservative. We regard your preparation as perfectly reliable, and we
have recommended it to our successor, J. W. Kelly, and believe he has
already ordered from you.

                                                          WHISLER & COX.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Dodgeville, Wis., Aug. 11, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have some of the Preservative yet, but I will not let it run too low
before ordering more, as I would not be without it.

                                                           F. C. BARTLE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Woodbury, N. J., April 9, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am using the Excelsior Preservative, and find it excellent for
embalming and for removing discoloration.

                                                             E. CATLETT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                              Beaver, O., Aug. 25, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative has given perfect satisfaction. One case of a very
corpulent man in the very warmest weather, and the physicians present at
the time of death said it would be impossible to keep the body 24 hours,
but with the Preservative it was kept in first-rate condition and from
all appearances it would have kept for weeks longer.

                                                             B. F. WEST.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Bradford, Ohio, Nov. 6, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have gained a good reputation in caring for the dead by using your
Preservative, and have had the very best success with it. One lady told
us that by our preparing the dead for burial we had taken all the fear
and horror from her mind, as they lay as though they were in sleep and
at rest, looking really pleasant and lovely even in death.

                                                       WILLIAMSON & SON.

And again, June 6, 1887:

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Excelsior Preservative is the best of any we have yet tried.

                                                       WILLIAMSON & SON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                    Martinsburg, West Va., June 1, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative gives perfect satisfaction. We have given it some
severe tests and find it does its work splendid, and therefore we cannot
dispense with its use.

                                                   WILLIAM WILEN & SONS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Portland, Ind., July 28, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative has given very good satisfaction and has never failed
yet, and I have used it in a great many cases.

                                                             JOHN CRING.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Bement, Ill., April 19, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I consider that I have had a good test of the merits of your
Preservative. I embalmed a body with it and kept it here four days, and
then the friends started with it to Massachusetts, and it arrived at its
destination in perfect condition. I only filled the cavities and did not
inject the arteries, and of course with full embalming it could have
been carried anywhere and kept as long as wanted, at least that is my
experience of your Preservative.

                                                             J. H. CAMP.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Darlington, Wis., May 30, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am well pleased with your Preservative, and you may send me another
package by express right away.

                                                           F. CORNELIUS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Van Wert, Ohio, Oct. 19, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have been very successful with the Preservative, and consider it is
all you claim it to be.

                                                          J. H. CONOVER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                      Pittsfield, Ills., Sept. 24, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The Preservative has worked like a charm, and when what we have is used
will order more.

                                                       WINANS & PLATNER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                     Lake Village, N. H., Oct. 13, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have had good success with the Preservative, and shall order more
before I am quite out. In every case it has worked satisfactory.

                                                             E. D. WARD.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                              Knoxville, Sept. 11, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The Preservative is received in good order. I would say that I have used
it for the last four or five years with perfect satisfaction in every
case. I can take a corpse that is badly discolored and with the
Preservative can make it as white as marble in a few hours and remove
all the bad smell.

                                                            E. D. YOUNG.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                     Mt. Pleasant, Mich., Oct. 24, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am well satisfied of the merits of your Preservative and will use none
other. Will want more of it soon.

                                                           J. E. WILCOX.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Bluffton, O., Sept. 12, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I now return carboy to have it refilled with the Preservative and
shipped back to me. Have had very good success with it. One case I had
last June, for which I was called on the 20th, and kept the body until
the 28th with the Preservative, and it looked more natural and better
then than at the time of death. The friends of the deceased were all
very well satisfied.

                                                             WM. WILSON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Decatur, Ills., March 10, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have no use for any other Fluid than yours, as it is not cheap Fluid
that I want. The best is the cheapest, and I have always found your
Preservative to be the best.

                                                          J. B. BULLARD.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Rockland, Maine, Nov. 3, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have given your Preservative some very severe tests, and have found
it to work splendidly.

                                                   N. A. & S. H. BURPEE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Howell, Mich., Aug. 7, 1886.

We use your Preservative in preference to anything else of the kind, as
we have had splendid results with it and it works like a charm in every
instance. In one case a body was taken to Lima, Ohio, in charge of other
parties, who undertook to keep it by the use of another preparation, and
were finally obliged to come to us and get some of the Preservative to
keep it in good condition.

                                                            H. GOODRICH.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Hartford City, April 5, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I will say this about your Preservative, that I prefer it to any other
Fluid I ever used.

                                                            W. H. GABLE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Omaha, Neb., June 10, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have sold out my Undertaking here to H. K. Burket and turned over to
him the stock I had of your Preservative, and have urged him to use none
but the best, and yours I know is the best there is.

                                                             F. S. HUNN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Avilla, Ind., April 21, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative is all that could be desired, and wherever I have used
it it has given perfect satisfaction.

                                                            G. S. HENRY.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Ottawa, Kansas., April 13, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Ship me two carboys of Excelsior Preservative. We have used nearly all
of the last and it is giving good satisfaction.

                                                             D. HOLADAY.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Titusville, Penn., Oct. 9, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I congratulate you upon having such an excellent embalming preparation
as your Preservative proves to be.

                                                             E. T. HALL.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Maynard, Mass., Sept. 22, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I like your Preservative very well, and when I want any intend to order
of you.

                                                           O. S. FOWLER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                              Elmore, O., Jan. 21, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We are well suited with your Preservative, and would have no other.

                                                          DOLPH & ICKES.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Harrison, Mich., Aug. 27, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative is the boss, and I will want some more of it when out.

                                                         J. H. CANFIELD.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Paris, Ills., Nov. 19, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We like your Preservative better than any Fluid that we know of.

                                                             HODGE BROS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Muncie, Ind., June 22, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have tried the Preservative and find it all right and to do good
work. We just used it on a very difficult case, and we feel entirely
satisfied with it.

                                                      WRIGHT & PHILLIPS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Gallipolis, O., Jan. 31, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

While I was in partnership with C. M. Richards at Wellston, O., we used
your Preservative and liked it very much, and you may send me a carboy
of it here, as I have located at this place in the Undertaking business.
I can buy Fluids for less than yours, but I prefer yours because I can
always rely upon it.

                                                       G. J. WETHERHOLT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                   Kilbourne City, Wis., March 30, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The Preservative is all right and is the best thing of the kind I have
ever used.

                                                              A. WRIGHT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Torrington, Conn., Sept. 3, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have been using the Preservative this summer, and found it to be an
excellent article. Send me another carboy about Oct. 1st.

                                                        HENRY J. ASHLEY.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Middlebury, Ind., Jan. 26, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The Preservative has given me the best of satisfaction, and I would not
be without it.

                                                              A. HAINES.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Westfield, Mass., Jan. 18, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am very well satisfied with your Preservative.

                                                          C. K. LAMBSON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Virden, Ills., Sept. 9, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

As soon as we are out we will give you an order for some more of your
Preservative, because we think you have the best thing out.

                                                         HESS & HOUSTON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Frankfort, Kans., Feb. 1, 1888.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We are well pleased with your Preservative and shall continue to use it
exclusively hereafter, as we have seen enough of the results from using
it to convince us that it is the best we have ever used.

                                                             MASON BROS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Cicero, Ind., June 15, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative is the best I ever saw, and I shall send in an order
for some more before long.

                                                           J. P. KEPNER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Rich Hill, Mo., Sept. 8, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative is giving good satisfaction, and I expect to keep it
on hand hereafter.

                                                             WM. LESLIE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Dodgeville, Wis., July 26, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I enclose draft for last bill. The Preservative is the best thing of the
kind I have ever used.

                                                            B. T. DAVEY.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Reinbeck, Iowa, June 10, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I will send in for some more of the Preservative soon, as I like it
tip-top.

                                                                F. KOLB.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       Stillwater, Minn., Dec. 18, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We like your Preservative, from its having been recommended to us and
spoken of very highly, and we will use it.

                                                      MULLER & COCKBURN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Weedsport, N. Y., Nov. 17, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have started in business here, having been formerly in Jordan, N. Y.,
of Stewart & Laird. Send me a package of the Preservative, and also the
price of your instruments. The Preservative I had always found to be the
best.

                                                         JAMES A. LAIRD.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                         Anthony, Kansas, July 18, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I sold out in Michigan City to A. F. Earl, and recommended the
Preservative to him as being the best there is, and you can count on one
more customer. We shall use it here also.

                                                E. G. MERRILL,
                                                    Of ANTHONY FURN. CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                 North Manchester, Ind., March 28, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I bought out S. A. Argabrite and am doing the Undertaking business here.
Mr. A. says that I can rely upon the Preservative as being the best, and
what I have used of it so far has proved it.

                                                          JACOB MISENER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                        Beaver Dam, Wis., Oct. 24, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

The Preservative has given such good satisfaction that you may expect an
order from us for more, as soon as we use up the last.

                                                   JNO. McKINSTRY & SON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Seymour, Ind., July 15, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

In regard to your Preservative, I would say that it is giving entire
satisfaction.

                                                          C. H. HANCOCK.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Dysart, Iowa, Oct. 3, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I am well pleased with your Preservative, and will send for more before
I am entirely out.

                                                        J. T. KRANBUEHL.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Columbus, O., Feb. 1, 1888.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have removed to this city and opened up in the Undertaking business
again, and as I have formerly used your Preservative and found it to
prove satisfactory in every case I want it again, and you may ship me a
carboy of it.

                                                         H. A. PLETCHER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Forest, Ohio, Oct. 13, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative is the best I ever used. It does its work perfect in
every way.

                                                              W. McKEAN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                            Palmyra, Mo., Jan. 15, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Send me another carboy of the Preservative March 1st; have enough until
then. I used some other kinds last summer, but shall use more of yours
hereafter, as I like it better.

                                                           THOS. MARTIN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Corning, N. Y., Feb. 1, 1888.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I just emptied the last carboy and returned to you by freight four empty
ones, and brought down from the freight house the four full ones of last
shipment. I find that the Preservative stood the test of the last cold
weather all right, and think that it will stand the severest test of
cold.

                                                           J. W. DARRIN.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Jackson, Ohio, July 31, 1883.

CRANE & ALLEN:

We have had good success with the Preservative, and shall use nothing
else, as we like it the best.

                                                    H. H. MARSHMAN & CO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                      New Washington, O., Jan. 10, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Send me a set of your instruments. Your Preservative is the best I ever
used, and I will give you a call for more as soon as I am out of it.

                                                              C. KAHLER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                              Peru, Ind., Aug. 12, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative still gives good satisfaction, and I am using no
other.

                                                        JOHN S. LENHART.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                     Erie, Nov. 4, 1885.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I shall send you an order for some more of the Preservative in the near
future. Am having grand success with it.

                                                         A. A. MATTHEWS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                             Tipton, Iowa, Aug. 2, 1887.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Please fill and return to me the carboy I send. The Preservative does
its work nicely.

                                                           M. H. MILLER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Villisca, Iowa, May 21, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I have never had a failure with your Preservative. I embalmed two bodies
with it, and only gave them cavity embalming, and sent them to New York
and they kept seven days very fine.

                                                            E. W. PAYNE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                          Vassar, Mich., March 22, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative has always proven entirely satisfactory, and I have
had excellent success with it.

                                                            M. D. NORTH.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Homer, Ills., March 13, 1884.

CRANE & ALLEN:

Your Preservative gives good satisfaction. Last winter I had some of it
in bottles, setting by the side of another kind, and that froze and
bursted the bottles, but yours did not.

                                                        J. K. OCHELTREE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                       River Falls, Wis., March 7, 1886.

CRANE & ALLEN:

I find your Preservative is just the thing I want, and it bears out the
reports of others, who told me they have used it with good success.

                                                        J. H. PATTERSON.

[Illustration: [Fleuron]]




                                 NOTE.


We would more particularly urge upon your attention the care that should
be taken in keeping this MANUAL OF INSTRUCTION from the observation of
any person other than yourself, for reasons which we trust will appear
plain to you; that, as it contains all of the _practical knowledge of
the present day_ on the subject of Embalming, so plainly demonstrated in
the Manual as to be easily acquired by any person who might have the
opportunity of studying the book; therefore it is clearly in your
interest to keep it in such a safe place that no one but yourself can
have access to it, otherwise it might be the very means of educating and
qualifying some person who might sooner or later come into competition
with you, to the great injury of your business.

We endeavor to protect our customers by refusing to fill all orders for
the Preservative from any persons who are not regularly engaged in the
Undertaking business, and _we would not furnish the Manual_ to any other
than our customers under any circumstances. See card pasted on inside of
the front cover.




                           TO OUR CUSTOMERS.


A few of our customers have, from time to time, called us to order (as
it were) by reason of the cost of the Excelsior Preservative, and to
such we would say that the first cost to manufacture the Preservative is
from five to eight times more than any of the poison water “Fluids” that
have ever come under our observation, and among all classes of
merchandise, we know of nothing that is put on the market at so small a
margin of profit as the Excelsior Preservative. We are now down to bed
rock, with only a very small margin above actual cost. Nevertheless, we
are sticking to it by reason of the continued increase of trade, which
we trust in time will enable us to say that large sales and small
profits are sure to win in the long run.

We trust that this explanation will be satisfactory to those of our
customers who have written us, and will only say in conclusion that a
small reduction in price would now drive us out of the market, which we
feel sure you would regret.

We ask your patronage and support in order that we can continue to float
the only _honest and reliable_ article of its kind that has ever been
put on the market, at the smallest possible margin of profits.

                                                     Respectfully yours,
                                                         CRANE & ALLEN.




                           Index to Letters.


                                                            PAGE.
      Abbott, J. L.,               Northfield, Vt.,            68
      Albaugh & Lanum,             Circleville, O.,            62
      Albright, J. W.,             E. Liverpool, O.,           61
      Allen, Henry & Son,          Norwich, Conn.,            112
      Allington, J. W.,            Webster City, Ia.,          60
      Anderson, S.,                Traverse City, Mich.,      112
      Andrews, R. T.,              Thomaston, Conn.,           65
      Applegate, J. L.,            Anna, O.,                  114
      Argabrite, S. L.,            New Carlisle, Ind.,        127
      Ashley, H. J,                Torrington, Conn.,         135
      Atkinson Bros.,              Pecatonica, Ill.,           82
      Augustine, S. G. & Son,      Racine, Wis.,              120
      Bacon, C.,                   Baraboo, Wis.,              76
      Bailey, M. H. & Co.,         Chillicothe, Ill.,          82
      Bainbridge & Hause,          Clinton, Mich.,             99
      Baker, S. S.,                Chebanse, Ill.,             63
      Baker & Yard,                Utica, Pa.,                111
      Baldwin, T. A.,              Fowler, Ind.,              111
      Barmore, D. R.,              Spirit Lake, Iowa,          99
      Barnard & Radley,            Earlville, Ill.,           111
      Barnes, James,               Grand Haven, Mich.,         74
      Barrett, D.,                 New Martinsburg, O.,        74
      Bartle, F. C.,               Dodgeville, Wis.,          129
      Bassett, E. F.,              Seymour, Conn.,             80
      Bauder, S. E.,               Birmingham, O.,             83
      Bauer, Wm.,                  Weyauwega, Wis.,            91
      Baxter, D. A.,               Rochelle, Ill.,             85
      Beard, T. & Co.,             Hudson, Wis.,               63
      Beatty & Brown,              Cascade, Ia.,              112
      Bechstein, Chas. & Co.,      Mancelona, Mich.,           81
      Beebe, C. B.,                Beaver Dam, Wis.,           95
      Beebe, L. H.,                Pinckney, Mich.,           111
      Beelman, John,               Plymouth, O.,              104
      Beiderwolf, M.,              Monticello,                103
      Belden, J. T.,               Marengo, Ill.,              69
      Benedict, Chas. A.,          New York City,             106
      Berk, Fry & Co.,             Dayton, O.,                111
      Bird, H. T.,                 Mt. Pleasant, Ia.,         114
      Bishop, A. F.,               Mineral Point, Wis.,        74
      Black, J. S.,                Bainbridge, Ind.,          106
      Blue, W. C. & Son,           Gallatin, Tenn.,           114
      Bone, D. M. & Co.,           Petersburg, Ill.,           91
      Booth, J. I. & Son,          Groton, N. Y.,              64
      Borst, Josiah,               Cobleskill, N. Y.,         109
      Bowden, L. S. & Son,         Brookfield, Mo.,           109
      Bowers, J. S.,               Waterloo, Ind.,             99
      Bradrick & Son,              Chariton, Ia.,              99
      Bragunier & Cox,             Delphi, Ind.,              109
      Brewster & Co.,              Middlebury, Vt.,            56
      Bringhurst, R. R. & Co.,     Philadelphia,               96
      Bucher, H.,                  Lisbon, Ia.,                65
      Buckhart, J. & Son,          Sandwich, Ill.,             54
      Bullard, J. B.,              Decatur, Ill.,             132
      Bullock, G. W.,              Burr Oak, Mich.,            85
      Buren, A. B.,                Jamesport, Mo.,             64
      Burket Bros.,                Creston, Ia.,               91
      Burpee, N. A. & S. H.,       Rockland, Maine,           132
      Camp, J. H.,                 Bement, Ill.,              131
      Canfield, J. H.,             Harrison, Mich.,           134
      Casebolt, S.,                Ashland, Ky.,              123
      Catlett, E.,                 Woodbury, N. J.,           129
      Chaffee, F.,                 Chicago,                    71
      Chamberlin, R.,              Republic, O.,               83
      Chamberlin, S. S. & Son,     Joliet, Ill.,               60
      Chandler, W. M.,             Salem, Mass.,               72
      Chase & Churchill,           Weeping Water, Neb.,       123
      Cheney, J. E.,               Mondovi, Wis.,             112
      Churchill, G. W. & Son,      Eaton, O.,                  72
      Clark Bros.,                 Kalkaska, Mich.,           105
      Clarke, W. H.,               Edgerton, Wis.,             60
      Clausen, P.,                 Albert Lea, Minn.,          90
      Clawson & Hawks,             New York City,             116
      Clement, A. T.,              Clarinda, Ia.,              82
      Cochonour, M. G.,            Casey, Ill.,                89
      Cohee & Spaugh,              Hope, Ind.,                 54
      Comley & Bird,               Frankfort, Ind.,            61
      Compton, C. W.,              Newark, N. J.,             122
      Conn, G. B.,                 Greensburg, Pa.,            96
      Conover, J. H.,              Van Wert, O.,              131
      Corell, W. J. & Co.,         Bloomsburg, Pa.,            83
      Cornelius, F.,               Darlington, Wis.,          131
      Cottingham, S. D. & Co.,     Noblesville, Ind.,         121
      Couts, Jno. F.,              Clarksville, Tenn.,         84
      Cowan, J. S.,                Delphos, O.,                89
      Cox & Reed,                  Hastings, Neb.,             81
      Crandell, S. C.,             Westfield, N. Y.,           57
      Crawford, A.,                North Bend, Neb.,          127
      Crawford, Wm.,               Franklin Grove, Ill.,      120
      Cree, R. S.,                 Nunda, N. Y.,               89
      Cring, John,                 Portland, Ind.,            130
      Cropper, E. S.,              Zionsville, Ind.,           89
      Crowell, J. & Co.,           Summitville, Ind.,         116
      Crowley, J. & Son,           Hamilton, O.,               60
      Crumbie, Thos. J.,           Chester, Pa.,               90
      Culp, George,                Nokomis, Ill.,             124
      Dain, John F.,               Oswego, N. Y.,             126
      Damon, W. F.,                Kenton, O.,                115
      Danahy, T. J.,               Lexington, Ky.,             69
      Danforth, C. W.,             Ovid, Mich.,               121
      Darrin, J. W.,               Corning, N. Y.,    77,     138
      Davey, B. T.,                Dodgeville, Wis.,          136
      Davidson, Wm.,               Titusville, Pa.,           119
      Davis Bros.,                 Morris, Ill.,               67
      Davis, J. M.,                Alma, Neb.,                 78
      Davis, W. W.,                Arcade, N. Y.,             102
      Davis & Hover,               Ada, O.,                    86
      Deckman, Geo.,               Malvern, O.,                67
      Delano & Cooley,             Ripon, Wis.,                56
      Demple, Geo. A.,             Bonaparte, Ia.,             67
      Dexter, E.,                  Danielsonville, Conn.,     122
      Diggins, Geo. E.,            Marengo, Ill.,              52
      Dillman, A. C.,              Bryan, O.,                  69
      Dinning, E.,                 McKenzie, Tenn.,            56
      Disbrow, Benj. L.,           Trenton, N. J.,             55
      Dolph & Ickes,               Elmore, O.,                134
      Donaghy & Howe,              Hillsdale, Mich.,          116
      Donnelly, Chas. & Co.,       Covington, Ky.,             69
      Drake, W. H.,                Morrisonville, Ill.,       128
      Drescher, F. E.,             Greensburg, Kan.,          120
      Dunklee & Easterly,          Anamosa, Ia.,               70
      Dunlap & McGoodwin,          Danville, Ky.,              79
      Dunlay, W. J. & Co.,         New Britain, Conn.,        120
      Dunn, L. D.,                 Meadville, Pa.,             78
      Early, E. S. & Son,          Philadelphia,              106
      Edgcomb & Ballard,           Cortland, N. Y.,            49
      Edwards & Corlett,           Newton, Kan.,               49
      Eiker & King,                Fort Dodge, Ia.,           128
      Eldred, H.,                  Gardner, Ill.,              86
      England, Barr & Co.,         Lebanon, Ky.,               86
      Ervin, S. J.,                Parker City, Pa.,          128
      Fay, H. W.,                  Marlboro, Mass.,            94
      Fedde, Henry & Son,          Peotone, Ill.,             102
      Feiten, John,                Mishawaka, Ind.,            94
      Feith, N.,                   Cairo, Ill.,                58
      Fernald & Co.,               Austin, Minn.,              58
      Field, L. & Co.,             Clinton, Mass.,             50
      Fies, William,               Marion, O.,                120
      Fillmen, Jas. M.,            Pottstown, Pa.,             58
      Fisher., A. C.,              Concord, N. H.,            118
      Fletcher, R. B.,             Cortland, N. Y.,            58
      Fowler, O. S.,               Maynard, Mass.,            134
      Francis, J. B.,              Canandaigua, N. Y.,        120
      Frantz, D. A.,               Lebanon, Pa.,              102
      Frear, J. S.,                Binghamton, N. Y.,          67
      Frink, Daniel,               Watertown, N. Y.,           94
      Frost, E. N. & Son,          Athens, Pa.,                94
      Gable, W. H.,                Hartford City,             133
      Gamble, L. D.,               Perry, Ia.,                 97
      Gardner, W. P.,              Gilman, Ill.,               54
      Gaspar, Chas.,               Waukesha, Wis.,            115
      Gehres, A.,                  Waverly, O.,               100
      Gentry, J. M.,               Louisiana, Mo.,             77
      Gerstle, F. W. & Son,        Cincinnati,                 76
      Gibson & Beck,               Fairfield, Ia.,            101
      Giering & Martin,            Emlenton, Pa.,             114
      Gilmore, J.,                 Gridley, Ill.,             101
      Goodrich, H.,                Howell, Mich.,             133
      Goodwin, Samuel,             St. Thomas, Ont.,           76
      Gray, A. M.,                 Hampton, Ia.,              116
      Greene, W. Harvey,           Rochester, Mich.,           75
      Greenlund, N.,               Warren, Pa.,                55
      Greenlund, P.,                       „      „           116
      Gustin, E. & L.,             Denver,                     71
      Haas & Wassom,               Peru, Ill.,                128
      Hackenburger, J.,            Grand Rapids, O.,          114
      Hackman, H.,                 Staunton, Ill.,             83
      Hackman, N. H. & Co.,        Cincinnati,                 73
      Haines, A.,                  Middlebury, Ind.,          135
      Hall, E. T.,                 Titusville, Pa.,           131
      Holst, J. F. & Bro.,         Memphis, Tenn.,             75
      Hancock, C. H.,              Seymour, Ind.,             137
      Hansen & Huck,               Kenosha, Wis.,              78
      Hardy, H. W.,                Lincoln, Neb.,              97
      Hargrave Bros.,              Rockville, Ind.,            78
      Harrouff, J. A.,             Atchison, Kans.,            77
      Hawley & Sayer,              Danbury, Conn.,             73
      Henry, G. S.,                Avilla, Ind.,              133
      Herriff & Reed,              Kent, O.,                  125
      Hershey Bros.,               Gettysburg, O.,             78
      Hess & Houston,              Virden, Ill.,              135
      Hildabolt, H.,               Germantown, O.,             84
      Hinton, T. J.,               Flemingsburg, Ky.,          73
      Hiss, Sebastian,             Plainfield, Ind.,           59
      Hodge Bros.,                 Paris, Ill.,               134
      Hoeft & Tucker,              Berlin, Wis.,              124
      Holaday, D.,                 Ottawa, Kans.,             133
      Hole, R. & W. M.,            Salem, O.,                  70
      Holmes & Co.,                Saratoga Springs, N. Y.,   127
      Horn, C. W.,                 Tiffin, O.,                128
      Hosmer, M. W.,               Burlington, Vt.,            79
      Houston, J. E.,              Beloit, Wis.,               84
      Howard, M. D.,               Jordan, N. Y.,              85
      Howard & Dinsmore,           Carlisle, Ky.,              84
      Howland, H. F.,              Streator, Ill.,             63
      Hoy, A. L.,                  DuBois, Pa.,                65
      Hudson & Tippett,            Shawnee, O.,                79
      Hunn, F. S.,                 Omaha, Neb.,               133
      Hunt, J. J.,                 Peoria, Ill.,              117
      Hurlburt, Geo. R.,           Dansville, N. Y.,           63
      Jacoby & Ryerson,            Wilton Junction, Ia.,       77
      James, J. P. & Co.,          Greenfield, Ind.,           70
      Janesville Furn. Co.,        Janesville, Wis.,           65
      Jardine & Hance,             Succasunna, N. J.,         123
      Johnson, W. S.,              Carthage,                  124
      Jones, Rob’t H.,             Memphis, Tenn.,             75
      Kahler, C.,                  New Washington, O.,        139
      Kampp, Conrad,               Wheaton, Ill.,              67
      Karstens, C. N.,             Nebraska City, Neb.,        52
      Kaufman & Hoefs,             Newton, Kans.,             103
      Keesling, C. B.,             Pendleton, Ind.,           126
      Kenney & Dillon,             Hartford, Conn.,            68
      Kepner, J. P.,               Cicero, Ind.,              136
      Kilian & Williams Furn. Co., Salina, Kan.,              109
      King, E. L.,                 Corry, Pa.,                115
      Knox, C. B.,                 Rock Island, Ill.,         125
      Kolb, F.,                    Reinbeck, Ia.,             136
      Kranbuehl, J. T.,            Dysart, Ia.,               138
      Kremer & Oplinger,           Wadsworth, O.,              66
      Labbitt, Henry,              Galesburg, Mich.,           61
      Laird, James A.,             Weedsport, N. Y.,          137
      Lake City Furn. Co.,         Lake City, Minn.,           52
      Lake, John,                  Baltimore, Md.,             61
      Lambson, C. K.,              Westfield, Mass.,          135
      Landis, D. Y.,               Wooster, O.,                66
      Landis, E. S.,               Coatesville, Pa.,           51
      Lash, N. G.,                 Montpelier,                 59
      Latimer & Hamilton,          Detroit,                   124
      Lawler, J. A.,               Eau Claire, Wis.,           62
      Lawrence, A. B.,             Warsaw, N. Y.,              51
      Lenhart, John S.,            Peru, Ind.,                139
      Leslie, Wm.,                 Rich Hill, Mo.,            136
      Lindsay & Wackman,           Oregon, Wis.,               57
      Lindsey, Jno. & Son,         Mt. Sterling, Ky.,          59
      Lloyd, John,                 Worcester, Mass.,           66
      Logan, D. L.,                Moundsville, W. Va.,        58
      Long, F. M.,                 West Chester, O.,           56
      Long, Geo. J.,               Coal Centre, Pa.,           62
      Luger Furn. Co.,             Fargo, Dak.,                59
      Luke, Robert,                Wheeling, W. Va.,           66
      Lyke, H. F.,                 Oconomowoc, Wis.,           89
      Lyon, Geo. C.,               Fair Haven,                 66
      Lyon, John W.,               New York City,             126
      Lyons, J. L.,                Greenfield, Mass.,          53
      McCormick, J. & Son,         Mt. Vernon, O.,             68
      McCurdy, J. B.,              Oskaloosa, Ia.,             64
      McDermott, J. H.,            Lowell, Mass.,              50
      McDonnell, A.,               New Hampton, Ia.,           73
      McKean, W.,                  Forest, O.,                138
      McKee, A. A.,                McLean, N. Y.,              50
      McKinstry, Jno. & Son,       Beaver Dam, Wis.,          137
      Manville, Geo. E.,           Willoughby, O.,             80
      Marsh, H. E.,                Rockford, Ill.,             50
      Marshman, H. H. & Co.,       Jackson, O.,               139
      Martin, Thos.,               Palmyra, Mo.,              138
      Mason Bros.,                 Frankfort, Kans.,          136
      Matthews, A. A.,             Erie,                      139
      Matthews, N. C.,             Winchenden, Mass.,          74
      Means & Leach,               Quincy, O.,                 73
      Meister, Oscar,              Chicago,                    53
      Merrill, E. G.,              Anthony, Kans.,            137
      Merritt, Stephen,            New York City,              49
      Meyners, E.,                 Highland Park, Ill.,       112
      Miller, E. S.,               Reading, Pa.,               53
      Miller, Jacob,               West Milton, O.,            57
      Miller, J. H.,               Edgerton, O.,               93
      Miller, M. H.,               Tipton, Ia.,               139
      Misener, Jacob,              N. Manchester, Ind.,       137
      Mitchell, N. B.,             Oconto, Wis.,               81
      Mitchell & Beck,             Wilmington, Del.,           94
      Mohlman, W. F.,              Beardstown, Ill.,          104
      Muller & Cockburn,           Stillwater, Minn.,         136
      Murrell, Jos. P.,            St. Louis,                  50
      Murray, B. E.,               Boston,                     93
      Myall & Riley,               Maysville, Ky.,             96
      Nelson, C. C.,               Cassopolis, Mich.,          87
      Noel & Arthur,               Altoona, Pa.,               96
      North, M. D.,                Vassar, Mich.,             140
      Oakes, J. T. & Co.,          Pulaski, Tenn.,             88
      Oblander Bros.,              Bushnell, Ill.,             92
      Ocheltree, J. R.,            Homer, Ill.,               140
      Ogden, J. H.,                Massillon, O.,              91
      Olinger, J. W.,              Santa Fe, N. M.,            85
      Osborn, G. & Sons,           Michaelsville, Md.,         87
      Partridge & VanDusen,        Jamestown, N. Y.,           62
      Patterson, A. & J. W.,       Braidwood, Ill.,            71
      Patterson, J. H.,            River Falls, Wis.,         140
      Paul, Geo. Chandler,         Philadelphia,               70
      Payne & Payne,               Broadhead, Wis.,           104
      Payne, E. W.,                Villisca, Ia.,             139
      Pease & Bright,              Wakeman, O.,                83
      Perry, Chas. L.,             Boston,                     52
      Phillips, T. D.,             Menasha, Wis.,             110
      Phlipson, Jno.,              Fox Lake, Wis.,             92
      Pierce, E. C.,               Blair, Neb.,                91
      Pickett, J. W. & Co.,        Mt. Blanchard, O.,          60
      Pletcher, H. A.,             Columbus, O.,              138
      Postlewait, S. C.,           Chicago,                    51
      Price, I. M.,                Sunbury, O.,                71
      Queer, William,              Canton, Mo.,               111
      Quinn, W. J.,                Erie, Pa.,                 107
      Rank, W. L.,                 Van Wert, O.,              109
      Raub, A. R.,                 Scranton, Pa.,             104
      Raymond, E. C. & Co.,        Plymouth, O.,               88
      Raymond, E. S.,              Fall River, Mass.,         105
      Reichel, Geo. P.,            Macon, Mo.,                 88
      Rice, A. T. & Sons,          Frederick, Md.,            105
      Rice, Geo. W.,               Pontiac, Ill.,              88
      Richards. C. M.,             Wellston, O.,               52
      Ritter, Joel,                Coopersburg, Pa.,           75
      Rolf, William,               Hoyleton, Ill.,            108
      Rulon, Jno. C.,              Philadelphia,               75
      Russ, Fred H. & Co.,         Chicago,                    61
      Russell, Peter & Son,        Ottawa, Ill.,               51
      Rust, Q. E.,                 Ellicottville, N. Y.,      108
      Ryan, John F.,               St. Louis,                  90
      Salisbury, A.,               Oregon, Ill.,               90
      Salm, Morton & Co.,          Sidney, O.,                 88
      Scherer, Armbruster & Co.,   Galena, Ill.,               98
      Schiela, J. F. & Bro.,       Mt. Vernon, Ind.,           86
      Schroyer, S.,                West Newton, Pa.,          108
      Seeber, J. D.,               Chenango Forks, N. Y.,      87
      Shannon, H. F.,              Bay City, Mich.,           106
      Shaw, G. N.,                 Muir, Mich.,               123
      Shoop, J. S. & Son,          Richmond, Mo.,             119
      Shriner, F.,                 Monroe, Wis.,              121
      Shurtleff, H. C.,            Philadelphia,              125
      Sidman, W. C.,               Nelsonville, O.,           110
      Simmons, F. S.,              Camden, N. J.,             104
      Simmons, Geo. W.,            Bristol, R. I.,            115
      Slater, A. T.,               Argos, Ind.,               119
      Smith, E. M.,                Chambersburg, Pa.,         119
      Smith, James,                Barry, Ill.,                87
      Smith, Jno.,                 Waterville, N. Y.,         115
      Smith, O. T.,                Susquehanna, Pa.,          113
      Smith, W. H.,                Michigan City, Ind.,       110
      Smith, W. S.,                Larwill, Ind.,             113
      Snyder, M.,                  Polo, Ill.,                107
      Soper, B. H. & Co.,          Oshkosh, Wis.,             110
      Spencer, K. W.,              Union, N. Y.,              117
      Spielman, J. R.,             Hagerstown, Md.,            98
      Spikes, William,             Oshkosh. Wis.,             119
      Stagg, J. H.,                Harrodsburg, Ky.,           97
      Stanley, P. M.,              Memphis, Tenn.,            108
      Staum, J. & Son,             Sycamore, O.,              115
      Stevens, Hering & Co.,       Charles City, Iowa,        122
      Stewart, R. H.,              Natchez, Miss.,             54
      Stocum, J. & Son,            Bath, N. Y.,               123
      Stonehill, J.,               Dunkirk, O.,                90
      Strack, C. A.,               York, Pa.,                 122
      Strickler, Wm.,              Lanark, Ill.,              117
      Stropel, C.,                 Lancaster, O.,              97
      Sutch, Wendall H.,           Los Angeles, Cal.,         117
      Taylor & Kopf,               Lowell,                     99
      Thein, H.,                   Oak Harbor, O.,            113
      Theile & Goodhue,            White Water, Wis.,         100
      Thomas, Geo. W.,             Hanover, Pa.,              100
      Thompson, A. C.,             Princeton, Ky.,            113
      Thorn, G. S.,                Akron, O.,                 121
      Thornton & Hargrave,         Higginsville, Mo.,          98
      Tobias, Geo. F.,             Peoria, Ill.,              108
      Townsend, L. P.,             Hulmeville, Pa.,            77
      Townsley, F. M.,             West Milton, O.,           120
      Tozer, H. A. & Co.,          Little Falls, N. Y.,       113
      Treat, M. P. & Co.,          Clinton, Wis.,             122
      Van Arsdale, J. H.,          Castile, N. Y.,            129
      Van Cleve, Jas. G.,          Trenton, N. J.,            118
      Van Dusen, Theo. & Bro.,     Jamestown, N. Y.,          103
      Van Fleet, J. P.,            Towanda, Pa.,              118
      Van Liew, J. L.,             Dover, N. J.,              124
      Vaughan & Hinman,            Fremont, Neb.,              95
      Vaught, H. C.,               North Vernon, Ind.,        100
      Verros, William,             Pella, Ia.,                118
      Vose, G. B. & Bro.,          Mendon,                    118
      Wagoner, A.,                 Hudson, N. Y.,              97
      Walker, D. L.,               Spencerport, N. Y.,        109
      Walter, C. P.,               Sandwich, Ill.,            100
      Ward, E. D.,                 Lake Village, N. H.,       131
      Warren, M. C., Son & Co.,    Grand Rapids, Wis.,        101
      Watrous, C. W.,              Windsor Locks, Conn.,       92
      Watters, S.,                 Leipsic, O.,               121
      Weed, T.,                    Westfield, Ind.,           123
      Weir Bros.,                  La Porte, Ind.,            107
      West, B. F.,                 Beaver, O.,                130
      West Bros.,                  Grand Ledge, Mich.,        103
      Wetherholt, G. J.,           Gallipolis, O.,            135
      Whisler & Cox,               Marion, Ind.,              129
      Whitcomb Bros.,              Oxford, Mich.,              95
      Wicklin & McMackin,          Fairfield, Ill.,            98
      Wilcox, J. E.,               Mt. Pleasant, Mich.,       132
      Wilen, Wm. & Son,            Martinsburg, W. Va.,       130
      Willard, L. C.,              Belvidere, Ill.,           104
      Williamson & Son,            Bradford, O.,              130
      Wilson, Wm.,                 Bluffton, O.,              132
      Wilson, Wm. L.,              Rushville, Ind.,            93
      Winans & Platner,            Pittsfield, Ill.,          131
      Wingerter, B.,               Waynesburg, O.,             92
      Wirt, Chas. L.,              Frankfort, Ind.,           112
      Witter, Geo.,                Storm Lake, Ia.,            92
      Wolcott, J. L.,              Bloomington, Ill.,         105
      Wood, Thos. H.,              Murfreesboro, Tenn.,        98
      Woodring Bros.,              Waverly, Iowa,             101
      Wright, A.,                  Kilbourne City, Wis.,      135
      Wright Bros.,                Rushsylvania, O.,          127
      Wright, N. C.,               Liberty Cent., O.,          80
      Wright & Phillips,           Muncie, Ind.,              134
      Wuchter, J. H.,              Wadsworth, O.,              98
      Young, E. D.,                Knoxville,                 132
      Young, H. F.,                Necedah, Wis.,             125
      Young, J. F.,                Vinton, Ia.,                93
      Younger, J. W.,              Milan, Tenn.,              129
      Zaneis & Miller,             Washington,                102
      Zell, Geo. M. & Son,         Waynesville, O.,            95
      Zimmerman, D. F.,            Geneseo, Ill.,             128
      Zimmerman, S.,               Ottawa,                    103
      Zimmerman, S. P.,            Mt. Pleasant, Pa.,         124

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


 1. Typos fixed; non-standard spelling and dialect retained.
 2. Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.



